On 3 May 2023, ethnic violence erupted in India's north-eastern state of Manipur between the Meitei people, a majority that lives in the Imphal Valley, and the Kuki tribal community from the surrounding hills. As of 4 July, 142 people have been killed in the violence, with more than 300 wounded, and approximately 54,488 displaced.On 14 April 2023 a High Court had ordered, on a writ petition by the Metei Tribe Union, that the state government recommend Scheduled Tribe status for the valley-based Meitei community.  This order caused the All Tribal Students' Union Manipur to organize mass rallies in all hills districts; and in one of these rallies, the demonstrators clashed with a group of people in a region bordering Bishnupur district followed by house burning.  For example, the Kuki people, who predominantly reside in the hill regions surrounding the capital valley, have been viewed as being the target of the present state government's treatment of Indigenous land rights concerns.  Majority of the Kuki people are Christian. There have been evictions in Kuki communities as a result of efforts to survey forests, which were ostensibly made to stop the cultivation of poppies.Also, the Meitei Indigenous community has also experienced a rise in insecurity as a result of the flood of refugees following the military coup in neighboring Myanmar in 2021, particularly those from the Sagaing region. The people most impacted in both communities are women and children, even yet those in charge of the firearms, drugs, and politicians make the real decisions in the fight. To further a few people's agenda, the identities of various ethnic communities have been weaponized in the ongoing struggle.According to several organisations, there have been accounts of partisan killings by security forces, as well as allegations of the police siding with the Meitei community.A panel led by a retired Chief Justice will investigate the violence, while a peace committee will be established under the Governor and security advisor Kuldeep Singh, along with members of civil society. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) will probe six cases related to conspiracy in the violence, ensuring a neutral investigation to uncover the root causes.

Background
Manipur is a hill state in northeast India, bordering Myanmar to its east and south. The central area is the Imphal Valley occupying about 10% of the land area of the state, which is mainly populated by the Meitei people. All developmental activities are concentrated in the Imphal Valley. The surrounding hills which are undeveloped are inhabited by hill tribes, who are classified as Kukis in the southern portion and Nagas in the northeastern portion.The Meiteis, who are largely Hindus, make up 53% of the population. They are barred from settling in the hilly regions of the state except with the permission of the local district councils, as per the Land Reform Act of Manipur. The tribal population, consisting of predominantly Christian Kukis and the Nagas, forms about 40% of the state's 3.5 million people. They reside in the reserved hill regions consisting of the rest of the 90% of the state. The tribal population is not prohibited from settling in the valley region..Kukis state that they do not want to come to the valley but they have to since there are no roads no schools or hospitals in the hills.The Meiteis dominate political power in the Manipur Legislative Assembly.  Out of 60 seats in the Assembly, 19 seats are reserved for Scheduled Tribes (ST), i.e. for Naga or Kukis, while 40 are unreserved general constituencies, of which 39 seats were won by Meitei candidates in the last election. Tribal groups have complained that the government spending is unduly concentrated in the Meitei-dominated Imphal Valley.

2023 escalation
In 2023, the state government in Manipur began to expel illegal immigrants from Myanmar from state-owned forest reserves. Tribal groups alleged that illegal immigration is a pretext under which the Meitei population wants to drive away the tribal population from their lands. In February 2023, the BJP state government began an eviction drive in districts of Churachandpur, Kangpokpi and Tengnoupal, declaring the forest dwellers as encroachers – a move seen as anti-tribal.In March, the Manipur Cabinet decided to withdraw from the Suspension of Operation agreements with three Kuki militant groups including the Kuki National Army and the Zomi Revolutionary Army, though the central government did not support such a withdrawal. Several Manipuri organisations also demonstrated in New Delhi to press for a National Register of Citizens (NRC) to be created with 1951 as the base year, complaining of abnormal population growth in hill areas. The first violence broke out as five people were injured in a clash in the Kangpokpi district, where protesters gathered to hold a rally against "encroachment of tribal land in the name of reserved forests, protected forests and wildlife sanctuary". While, the state cabinet stated that the government will not compromise on "steps taken to protect the state government's forest resources and for eradicating poppy cultivation". On 11 April, three churches in Imphal's Tribal Colony locality were razed for being illegal constructions on government land.On 20 April 2023, a judge of the Manipur High Court directed the state government to "consider request of the Meitei community to be included in the Scheduled Tribes (ST) list." The Kukis feared that the ST status would allow the Meiteis purchase land in the prohibited hilly areas.The tribal groups called for a total shut down on 28 April in protest of the state government actions, a day that also happened to have been scheduled for the chief minister N. Biren Singh to visit Churachandpur for the inauguration of an open air gym. The day before the visit, a mob set fire to the gym and vandalised it. Section 144 (of the criminal procedure code) was invoked on 28 April as well as a five-day Internet shut down. The protesters clashed with the police and tear gas shells were used to disperse the mobs.CM Biren targeted Kukis on Twitter and TV channels even after the violence started in the state, leading to deepening already existing tensions between the communities. On 19 June, he labelled Kuki members with arms as "millitants" and said they will face consequences while appealed to armed Meiteis not to do anything illegal. On 29 June, he selectively targeted Kukis by labelling them "terrorists". In subsequent tweets, he called Kukis as Myanmarese and also invoked Chinese hand in the violence.

Overview
Riots
Amidst the long-standing tensions between the Meitei and the Kuki people, a tribal organisation called the All Tribal Student Union Manipur (ATSUM), opposed to the decision of the Manipur High Court, called for a march named the "Tribal Solidarity March" on 3 May, which turned violent in the district of Churachandpur. Reportedly, more than 60,000 protesters participated in this march.During the violence on 3 May, residence and churches of the mostly Kuki Tribal population were attacked in the non-tribal areas. According to the police, many houses of the tribal population in Imphal were attacked and 500 occupants were displaced and had to take shelter in Lamphelpat. Around 1000 Meiteis affected by the violence also had to flee from the region and take shelter in Bishnupur. Twenty houses were burnt in the city of Kangpokpi.  Violence was observed in Churachandpur, Kakching, Canchipur, Soibam Leikai, Tengnoupal, Langol, Kangpokpi and Moreh while mostly being concentrated in the Imphal Valley during which several houses, places of worship and other properties were burnt and destroyed.On 4 May, fresh cases of violence were reported. The police force had to fire several rounds of tear gas shells to control the rioters. Kuki MLA Vunzjagin Valte (BJP), who is the representative of the tribal headquarters of Churachandpur, was attacked during the riot