From January 28 to February 4, 2023, a high-altitude balloon owned by China was spotted in North American airspace, including Alaska, western Canada, and the contiguous United States. On February 4, the U.S. Air Force shot down the balloon over U.S. territorial waters off the coast of South Carolina. Debris from the wreckage was recovered and sent to the FBI Laboratory in Quantico, Virginia, for analysis. Following a preliminary analysis of the debris in June, U.S. officials stated that the balloon carried intelligence gathering equipment but does not appear to have sent information back to China. U.S. president Biden described the balloon as carrying two railroad cars' equivalent of spy equipment; his government said the balloon had a propeller for maneuverability.When the object was first spotted, the Pentagon characterized it as a surveillance balloon. The Chinese government maintained it was a civilian (mainly meteorological) airship that had been blown off course. According to U.S. officials, the balloon carried antennas and other equipment capable of geolocating communications signals, and similar balloons from China have flown over more than 40 nations. Analysts said that its flight path and structural characteristics were dissimilar from those of a typical weather balloon. American officials later disclosed that they had been tracking the balloon since it was launched from Hainan and its original destinations were likely Guam and Hawaii, but prevailing winds blew it off course and across North America.The incident increased U.S.–China tensions. The United States called the balloon's presence a violation of its sovereignty, and its Secretary of State Antony Blinken postponed a long-awaited diplomatic visit to Beijing. Canada summoned the Chinese ambassador in response to the incident.In the United States, three other high-altitude objects, over Northern Alaska (February 10), Yukon (February 11), and Lake Huron (February 11–12) respectively, were detected and subsequently shot down; a later assessment said they had no relation to China.

Background
History and development of reconnaissance balloons
Balloons have been valued for their ability to observe the battlefield and direct artillery. Their usage peaked during World War I, after which they were increasingly replaced by airplanes. During the Cold War, the United States sent hundreds of high-altitude balloons, ostensibly for "meteorological survey" under Project Genetrix, over China and other Eastern Bloc countries to gain intelligence on their nuclear capabilities, drawing their protests.Although mostly supplanted by surveillance satellites and unmanned aerial vehicles, balloons have retained some advantages, such as a lower cost of production and deployment. By 2019, the Pentagon had invested millions in COLD STAR (Covert Long Dwell Stratospheric Architecture), a project for stealthy balloons that are now being transitioned from narcotics surveillance into military service. China recognizes the importance of catching up to foreign countries in this domain. Its military publications have highlighted the use of balloons to assess the early warning and response capabilities of enemy air defenses and to enhance China's own defense capabilities.

Past Chinese balloons and unidentified objects
Suspected Chinese surveillance balloons had been detected in U.S. airspace in the past, namely over Guam, Hawaii, and Florida. One occurred earlier during Joe Biden's presidency (2021–present) and three occurred during Donald Trump's presidency (2017–2021). They did not persist as long as the 2023 incident, and China was able to recover those balloons.Other pre-2023 incursions have remained unexplained, classified by U.S. authorities as unidentified aerial phenomena. In 2022, the Office of the Director for National Intelligence said that there had been at least 171 reports of unexplained aerial phenomena in the United States, and the intelligence community has been unable to determine their precise nature. The commander of United States Northern Command (USNORTHCOM), General Glen VanHerck, said that U.S. failure to detect and identify all such incursions is "a domain awareness gap that we have to figure out". In response the U.S. changed the sensitivity of its radar detection systems, which enabled it to detect additional UFOs.The U.S. Department of State said that a fleet of Chinese balloons have flown over more than forty countries and linked the surveillance activity to the Chinese military. In 2020 and 2021, similar balloons were sighted in Sendai and Hachinohe, Japan respectively, but they were not identified as of Chinese origin at the time. A similar aircraft was sighted in January 2022 over India's strategically important Andaman and Nicobar islands. In February 2022, several balloons were detected off the coast of Taiwan, which their Ministry of National Defense said were likely for meteorological observations for the PLA's Eastern Theater Command. Another crashed near Taiwan in February 2023, carrying an antenna, a transmitter, temperature and humidity sensors, and was likely from China as well.

U.S.–China tensions
The 2023 balloon incident occurred while U.S.–China relations were at their worst in decades, following suspected incidents of Chinese espionage and amid increasing strategic competition in military and economic sectors. In 2022, the United States, along with some of its allies, imposed stringent export controls on "foundational technologies", such as semiconductor microprocessors, to China in order to hamper the latter's development of advanced technology and military tools. The US has also sought to maintain critical supply chains independent from China.

Incident
Balloon
Size, propulsion, and payload
The balloon carried an underslung payload described as a "technology bay" estimated to be the size of "two or three school buses" and was powered by sixteen solar arrays mounted on the payload. The balloon was 200 feet (61 m) tall according to U.S. General Glen D. VanHerck. AI startup Synthetaic, using image data from Planet Labs spacecraft, reported the balloon's diameter as 148 feet (45 m). USNORTHCOM and NORAD Commander, General Glen VanHerck, estimated the payload weighed more than 2,000 pounds (910 kg).The Chinese balloon was a superpressure balloon similar to earlier NASA designs, where the volume of the balloon is kept relatively constant in the face of changes in ambient pressure outside the balloon, and the temperature of the contained lifting gas. This allows better altitude control and much longer endurance compared to the more common variable-volume balloon design.
National Security Council spokesman Admiral John Kirby said the craft had a propeller and could be maneuvered. U.S. officials told foreign diplomats in Beijing that the craft had rudders and propellers. A Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson said it had "limited self-steering capability".The U.S. Department of Defense said the balloon did not present a military or physical threat to people on the ground while it remained in the air, and that shooting it down over water would be safer and increased the opportunity to study the wreckage for intelligence purposes.Citing a PLA procurement portal, a U.S. official said that the balloon was manufactured by a civilian Chinese defense contractor.

Signals intelligence capabilities
Experts noted that weather balloons typically are about 20 feet (6 m) wide, less than a quarter of the balloon's diameter. Those interviewed by BBC News said it was unusual for weather balloons to last as long as the one involved in the incident and that the balloon "might have been more sophisticated than China claims".Images from U-2 flybys and forensic analysis of the payload showed antennas that likely were used for collecting and transmitting signals intelligence. A publicly released U.S. State Department document, after the balloon was downed and debris collected, said that the balloon'