The Kyzylkum Desert (Uzbek: Qizilqum, Қизилқум, قىزىلقۇم; Kazakh: Қызылқұм, romanized: Qyzylqūm, قىزىلقۇم) is the 15th largest desert in the world. Its name means Red Sand in Turkic languages. It is located in Central Asia, in the land between the confluent rivers Amu Darya and Syr Darya, a region historically known as Transoxania. Today it is divided between Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. It covers about 298,000 km2 (115,000 sq mi).

Geography
The territory consists mainly of an extensive plain at an altitude up to 300 m (980 ft) above sea level, with a number of depressions and highlands (Sultanuizdag, Bukantau). Temperatures can be very high during the summer months, from mid-May to mid-September. Kerki, one extreme inland city located on the banks of the Amu Darya River, recorded 52 °C (126 °F) in July 1983. It is mainly located in Uzbekistan.

Fauna
Desert fauna include the Russian tortoise (Testudo horsfieldii) and a large lizard known as the Transcaspian or desert monitor (Varanus griseus), which can reach lengths of 1.6 m (5.2 ft). The saiga antelope (Saiga tatarica) also occasionally migrates through the northern part of the desert.
Kyzylkum Nature Reserve in Bukhara Region was established in 1971. The total area of this reserve is 51,450 km2 (19,860 sq mi). It is a breeding centre for rare species such as goitered gazelle (Gazella subgutturosa), Przewalski's horse (Equus ferus przewalskii), Turkmenian kulan (Equus hemionus kulan) and MacQueen's bustard (Chlamydotis macqueenii). The reserve was founded in 1977 on the enclosed area in 5,131 ha (19.81 sq mi).

Paleontology
The Kyzylkum Desert has exposed rock formations that have yielded a number of fossils.  Of particular interest is the Bissekty Formation of Uzbekistan, from the early Late Cretaceous, which has produced several species of early birds: Incolornis martini, Explorornis walkeri, Kizylkumavis cretacea, Kuszholia mengi, Lenesornis kaskarovi, Sazavis prisca, Zhyraornis kaskarovi and Z. logunovi are recognized as valid species. Tyrannosaurid, therizinosaurid, ornithomimosaur, oviraptorosaurian, troodontid, ankylosaur, hadrosaur, and ceratopsian dinosaurs are also known from this rock unit. Other fossils from the Cretaceous rocks of the Kyzylkum include tree trunks, pelecypods, beetles, sharks, rays, bony fish, frogs, salamanders, turtles, crocodylomorphs, pterosaurs, and a varied fauna of small early mammals. The desert is well known for its deposits of gold, uranium, copper, aluminium and silver, natural gas and oil. The development of the most famous gold-field at Muruntau began in the early 1970s. The centres for the mining and smelting industry at the region are Navoi, Zarafshan, Uchkuduk. The major industrial enterprises are: НГМК (Navoi Mining and Smelting Complex) and the Uzbek U.S.A. Joint Venture "Zarafshan-Newmont". The centres of the gas-production industry are Gazli and Mubarek.

Gallery
See also
Andronovo culture
Aydar Lake, large artificial lake
Central Asian northern desert, an ecoregion largely corresponding with the Kyzylkum Desert
Karakum Desert, another desert of Central Asia
List of deserts by area
Sarmishsay, ancient monuments of anthropogenic activity

References
External links
 Media related to Kyzyl Kum at Wikimedia Commons

Slideshow: Across Central Asia’s Empty Core – Walking the caravan routes of the Kyzyl Kum desert