On July 4, 2022, a mass shooting occurred during an Independence Day parade in Highland Park, Illinois, United States. The shooting occurred at 10:14 a.m. CDT (UTC−05:00), roughly 15 minutes after the parade had started. Seven people were killed, and 48 others were wounded by bullets or shrapnel.
Authorities apprehended 21 year old Robert Eugene Crimo III more than eight hours after the shooting and charged him the next day with seven counts of first-degree murder. On July 27, the charges were upgraded to 21 counts of first-degree murder, 48 counts of attempted murder, and 48 counts of aggravated battery.
The incident is one of the two deadliest mass shootings in Illinois history, the other being the 1993 Brown's Chicken massacre, which also resulted in the deaths of seven people.

Background
Highland Park is an affluent suburban community of about 30,000, located in Lake County, Illinois, United States, 25 miles (40 km) north of Chicago, in the area's North Shore. The city held a Fourth of July celebration, which included a parade that began at 10:00 a.m. CDT (UTC−05:00). The parade started at the intersection of Laurel and St. Johns Avenues, headed north on St. Johns Avenue, then turned west on Central Avenue, and continued to Sunset Woods Park.According to the Los Angeles Times, "A 2020 study by Brandeis University and the University of Chicago found Highland Park had among the Chicago region's highest concentrations of Jewish residents." The neighboring suburb of Highwood is home to a large Hispanic population.

Events
Shooting
The shooting began at 10:14 a.m. in downtown Highland Park, with the shooter firing a rifle from the rooftop of the Ross Cosmetics building, a local store on the northwest corner of Central Avenue and 2nd Street. The gunman had gained access to the elevated position by using an unsecured ladder attached to the building.The shooter used a Smith & Wesson M&P15 semiautomatic rifle with three 30-round magazines. A total of 83 shots were fired. Victims included spectators and some of those marching in the parade. At least one parade attendee provided medical treatment to those injured, before first responders arrived. Footage shot by Chicago Sun-Times reporter Lynn Sweet, a spectator at the parade, shows a participating klezmer band on a float continuing to play as gunfire began, and many attendees running while screaming. Additional photos of the scene were captured by attendees and posted to social media.

Manhunt and suspect's capture
Over 100 law enforcement officers from multiple agencies responded to the shooting. The shooter ceased firing as law enforcement officers approached the building, causing the shooter to flee the scene and evade immediate capture. During his escape, the rifle Crimo used fell from his bag and was recovered by police within minutes. He then drove to the Madison, Wisconsin area, with a Kel-Tec SUB-2000 semiautomatic rifle in his car. He considered attacking another Independence Day celebration in Madison, but decided against it. He discarded his cell phone in Middleton, Wisconsin. It was later suspected that after fleeing the scene Crimo borrowed his mother's car and drove to Madison, Wisconsin where he briefly contemplated a second attack.A driver from Waukegan and his passengers spotted Crimo's damaged 2010 Honda Fit on the southbound U.S Route 41 near Wadsworth. Over the next 13 minutes, they relayed information to 911 operators. Crimo was stopped by North Chicago Police and Lake County Sheriff units at the intersection of U.S Route 41 and Westleigh Road in Lake Forest, Illinois, and apprehended at approximately 6:30 p.m., more than eight hours after the shooting began.

Victims
Seven people were killed, and 48 others were injured by either bullets or shrapnel during the attack. Five of the victims—all adults—died at the scene, and two died at the hospital.Mexican authorities have said two men killed at the parade were "natives of the country." One of these was a 78-year-old Mexican grandfather who was visiting family in the area, and another was a 69-year-old man. Two Jewish victims that were killed were a 63-year-old woman and an 88-year-old grandfather. Another was a 64-year-old mother of two. Of the others that were killed, two victims were a married couple in their 30s who attended the parade with their 2-year-old son, who survived, and was found wandering unaccompanied.The shooting victims ranged in age from 8 to 88 years old. Highland Park Hospital reported that they were treating 26 people after the shooting, 25 being gunshot wounds, with five later transferred to Evanston Hospital. Additionally, four of the injured were transported to Glenbrook Hospital, and several others were taken to hospitals outside of the Northshore University Medical System network.

Investigation
Highland Park authorities collaborated with the FBI, Illinois State Police, and Chicago Police during the investigation and manhunt. The police believe only one shooter was involved and the shooting was described as appearing to be "very random (and) very intentional". After his arrest, Crimo's home in Highwood, a small suburb just north of Highland Park, was raided by FBI agents.Lake County authorities alleged that Crimo planned the attack for weeks, and that he dressed in women's clothing and hid his facial tattoos in order to flee the scene after the attack, among panicked parade-goers. Mayor of Highland Park Nancy Rotering said that she believed that the weapon used in the crime was obtained legally. Police seized three rifles, one shotgun, and one handgun from Crimo.Crimo's motives remain unclear. The London-based Institute for Strategic Dialogue said it appeared Crimo’s extensive online presence contained posts that gravitated toward far-right and neo-fascist ideologies. A Highland Park rabbi stated that, three months before the shooting, Crimo had entered Central Avenue Synagogue, a Chabad house, during the Passover Seder and was asked to leave. The Chabad House is located two blocks from where the July 4 shooting occurred. However, investigators have determined no racial or religious motivation for the shooting. Michael Masters, national director and CEO of the Secure Community Network headquartered in Chicago, said, "Nothing overtly we have identified in his social media posts says this was an antisemitic attack, but we are coordinating with law enforcement. Apparently on social media, there are some indications he was ideating around the Fourth of July for some period of time, which would indicate this was not an attack on one particular community."According to experts on QAnon and conspiracy theory movements, Crimo's social media diet, while extreme, was distinct from the realm of QAnon. Mike Rothschild, an author who has written on QAnon, said, "[T]he world Crimo lived in was pretty far off Q. He was in a 4chan bubble of ironic Nazi and anime memes, fascist-inspired music, and mass shooter ideation that basically consumes nothing but irony and sadness."

Legal proceedings
Robert Eugene Crimo III (born September 20, 2000) was charged on July 5 with seven counts of first-degree murder. The next day, he confessed to the shooting. Lake County Sheriff's Office said that he is being held without bail. A preliminary hearing was scheduled for July 28, 2022, but the hearing was obviated when a Lake County, Illinois grand jury indicted Crimo on July 27, 2022. Crimo was indicted on 117 felony counts: for each of the 7 deceased victims, three counts of first-degree murder (21 counts), and for each of the 48 victims struck by a bullet or shrapnel, one count of attempted murder (48 counts) and one count of aggravated battery (48 additional counts).

Accused
Crimo attended Highland Park High School, but dropped out before his junior year. He has performed under the stage name "Awake the Rapper", and posted his albums on Spotify, YouTube and Apple Music; which included apparent references to the QAnon conspiracy theory. M