Generative Pre-trained Transformer 4 (GPT-4) is a multimodal large language model created by OpenAI, and the fourth in its numbered "GPT-n" series of GPT foundation models. It was released on March 14, 2023, and has been made publicly available in a limited form via the chatbot product ChatGPT Plus (a premium version of ChatGPT), and with access to the GPT-4 based version of OpenAI's API being provided via a waitlist. As a transformer based model, GPT-4 was pretrained to predict the next token (using both public data and "data licensed from third-party providers"), and was then fine-tuned with reinforcement learning from human and AI feedback for human alignment and policy compliance.: 2 Observers reported the GPT-4 based version of ChatGPT to be an improvement on the previous (GPT-3.5 based) ChatGPT, with the caveat that GPT-4 retains some of the same problems. Unlike the predecessors, GPT-4 can take images as well as text as input. OpenAI has declined to reveal technical information such as the size of the GPT-4 model.

Background
OpenAI introduced the first GPT model (GPT-1) in 2018, publishing a paper called "Improving Language Understanding by Generative Pre-Training." It was based on the transformer architecture and trained on a large corpus of books. The next year, they introduced GPT-2, a larger model that could generate coherent text. In 2020, they introduced GPT-3, a model with 100 times as many parameters as GPT-2, that could perform various tasks with few examples. GPT-3 was further improved into GPT-3.5, which was used to create the chatbot product ChatGPT. 
Rumors claim that GPT-4 has 1.76 trillion parameters, which was first estimated by the speed it was running and by George Hotz.

Capabilities
OpenAI stated that GPT-4 is "more reliable, creative, and able to handle much more nuanced instructions than GPT-3.5." They produced two versions of GPT-4, with context windows of 8,192 and 32,768 tokens, a significant improvement over GPT-3.5 and GPT-3, which were limited to 4,096 and 2,049 tokens respectively. Some of the capabilities of GPT-4 were predicted by OpenAI before training it, although other capabilities remained hard to predict due to breaks in downstream scaling laws. Unlike its predecessors, GPT-4 is a multimodal model: it can take images as well as text as input; this gives it the ability to describe the humor in unusual images, summarize text from screenshots, and answer exam questions that contain diagrams.To gain further control over GPT-4, OpenAI introduced the "system message", a directive in natural language given to GPT-4 in order to specify its tone of voice and task. For example, the system message can instruct the model to "be a Shakespearean pirate", in which case it will respond in rhyming, Shakespearean prose, or request it to "always write the output of [its] response in JSON", in which case the model will do so, adding keys and values as it sees fit to match the structure of its reply. In the examples provided by OpenAI, GPT-4 refused to deviate from its system message despite requests to do otherwise by the user during the conversation.When instructed to do so, GPT-4 can interact with external interfaces. For example, the model could be instructed to enclose a query within <search></search> tags to perform a web search, the result of which would be inserted into the model's prompt to allow it to form a response. This allows the model to perform tasks beyond its normal text-prediction capabilities, such as using APIs, generating images, and accessing and summarizing webpages.A 2023 article in Nature stated programmers have found GPT-4 useful for assisting in coding tasks (despite its propensity for error), such as finding errors in existing code and suggesting optimizations to improve performance. The article quoted a biophysicist who found that the time he required to port one of his programs from MATLAB to Python went down from days to "an hour or so". On a test of 89 security scenarios, GPT-4 produced code vulnerable to SQL injection attacks 5% of the time, an improvement over Github Copilot from the year 2021, which produced vulnerabilities 40% of the time.

Aptitude on standardized tests
GPT-4 demonstrates aptitude on several standardized tests. OpenAI claims that in their own testing the model received a score of 1410 on the SAT (94th percentile), 163 on the LSAT (88th percentile), and 298 on the Uniform Bar Exam (90th percentile). In contrast, OpenAI claims that GPT-3.5 received scores for the same exams in the 82nd, 40th, and 10th percentiles, respectively.
GPT-4 also passed an oncology exam, an engineering exam and a plastic surgery exam.

Medical applications
Researchers from Microsoft tested GPT-4 on medical problems and found "that GPT-4, without any specialized prompt crafting, exceeds the passing score on USMLE by over 20 points and outperforms earlier general-purpose models (GPT-3.5) as well as models specifically fine-tuned on medical knowledge (Med-PaLM, a prompt-tuned version of Flan-PaLM 540B)".A report by Microsoft has found that GPT-4 may act unreliably when used in the medical field. In their test example, GPT-4 added fabricated details to a patient's notes.In April 2023, Microsoft and Epic Systems announced that they will provide healthcare providers with GPT-4 powered systems for assisting in responding to questions from patients and analysing medical records.

Limitations
Like its predecessors, GPT-4 has been known to hallucinate, meaning that the outputs may include information not in the training data or that contradicts the user's prompt.GPT-4 also lacks transparency in its decision-making processes. If requested, the model is able to provide an explanation as to how and why it makes its decisions but these explanations are formed post-hoc; it's impossible to verify if those explanations truly reflect the actual process. In many cases, when asked to explain its logic, GPT-4 will give explanations that directly contradict its previous statements.

Bias
GPT-4 was trained in two stages. First, the model was given large datasets of text taken from the internet and trained to predict the next token (roughly corresponding to a word) in those datasets. Second, human reviews are used to fine-tune the system in a process called reinforcement learning from human feedback, which trains the model to refuse prompts which go against OpenAI's definition of harmful behavior, such as questions on how to perform illegal activities, advice on how to harm oneself or others, or requests for descriptions of graphic, violent, or sexual content.Microsoft researchers suggested GPT-4 may exhibit cognitive biases such as confirmation bias, anchoring, and base-rate neglect.

Training
OpenAI did not release the technical details of GPT-4; the technical report explicitly refrained from specifying the model size, architecture, or hardware used during either training or inference. While the report described that the model was trained using a combination of first supervised learning on a large dataset, then reinforcement learning using both human and AI feedback, it did not provide details of the training, including the process by which the training dataset was constructed, the computing power required, or any hyperparameters such as the learning rate, epoch count, or optimizer(s) used. The report claimed that "the competitive landscape and the safety implications of large-scale models" were factors that influenced this decision.Sam Altman stated that the cost of training GPT-4 was more than $100 million. News website Semafor claimed that they had spoken with "eight people familiar with the inside story" and found that GPT-4 had 1 trillion parameters.

Alignment
According to their report, OpenAI conducted internal adversarial testing on GPT-4 prior to the launch date, with dedicated red teams composed of researchers and industry professionals to mitigate potential vulnerabilities. As part of these efforts, they gran