The 80th annual Venice International Film Festival will be held from 30 August to 9 September 2023.
Comandante, directed by Edoardo De Angelis, will serve as the festival's opening film on 30 August. Luca Guadagnino's Challengers was originally scheduled to have its world premiere as the festival's opening film, but MGM/Amazon chose to withdraw it and delay its release due to the ongoing 2023 SAG-AFTRA strike. J. A. Bayona's Society of the Snow will close the festival on 9 September.American filmmaker Damien Chazelle will serve as Jury President for the main competition, French filmmaker Alice Diop serving as Jury President for the Luigi de Laurentis Award for Debut Feature, and Italian filmmaker Jonas Carpignano heading the Orizzonti section.Alberto Barbera, Venice's artistic director, has acknowledged that the 2023 SAG-AFTRA strike is likely to impact the festival if it is not resolved in time, due to the strike rules that prevents all actors from take part in any kind of promotional activities for their films. Nevertheless, the festival will proceed even if fewer Hollywood celebrities than usual are in attendance, with an increase of European titles in all sections being expected. The world premieres of some upcoming expected award season hot titles, such as Ethan Coen's Drive-Away-Dolls, are likely on hold for now.Italian director Liliana Cavani and Chinese actor Tony Leung Chiu-wai will both receive the Golden Lion for Lifetime Achievement during the festival.

Juries
Main Competition (Venezia 80)
Damien Chazelle, American filmmaker - Jury President
Saleh Bakri, Palestinian actor
Jane Campion, New Zealand filmmaker
Mia Hansen-Løve, French filmmaker
Gabriele Mainetti, Italian filmmaker
Martin McDonagh, British-Irish filmmaker and playwright
Santiago Mitre, Argentine filmmaker
Laura Poitras, American filmmaker
Shu Qi, Taiwanese-Hong Kong actress and model

Horizons (Orizzonti)
Jonas Carpignano - Jury president
Kaouther Ben Hania, Tunisian filmmaker
Kahill Joseph, American filmmaker, music video director, and video artist
Jean-Paul Salomé, French Filmmaker
Tricia Tuttle, British programmer and director of the BFI London Film Festival and the BFI Flare: London LGBTQI+ Film Festival

Luigi de Laurentis Award for Debut Film
Alice Diop, French Filmmaker - Jury President
Faouzi Bensaïdi, Moroccan filmmaker
Laura Citarella, Argentinian director and producer
Andrea De Sica, Italian director and screenwriter
Chloe Domont, American filmmaker

Venice Classics
Andrea Pallaoro, Italian filmmaker

Venice Immersive
Singing Chen, Taiwanese filmmaker and music composer - Jury President
German Heller, American animator and producer
Pedro Harres, Brazilian director, animator, screenwriter and multimedia artist

Official Selection
In Competition
. The section usually also presents a selection of documentaries about cinema. Director and screenwriter Andrea Pallaoro will chair a Jury of Film Students which will award the Venice Classics prizes for the respective competitions for Best Restored Film and for the Best Documentary About Cinema. 

Final Cut in Venice
Final Cut in Venice is the festival program that has been providing since 2013 support in the completion of films from African and Middle East countries. The following seven work-in-progress films have been selected for the 11th edition of Final Cut in Venice:

Official Awards
Golden Lion for Lifetime Achievement
Liliana Cavani
Tony Leung Chiu-wai

References
External links
Official website