Starship is a super heavy-lift launch vehicle under development by SpaceX. At 120 metres (394 feet) in height and with a liftoff mass of 5,000 metric tons (11,000,000 pounds), Starship is the largest and most powerful rocket ever flown, surpassing the thrust of NASA's Space Launch System and Saturn V, as well as the Soviet N1, which had previously held the record.The two-stage-to-orbit launch vehicle consists of the first-stage Super Heavy booster and the second-stage spacecraft also named Starship. Both stages are powered by Raptor rocket engines, which burn liquid methane and liquid oxygen, operating in a full-flow staged combustion power cycle. Both are designed to be fully reusable, performing controlled landings on the arms of the launch tower used to lift the vehicles and, eventually, reflown within hours. Starship is designed to have a payload capacity of 150 tonnes (330,000 lb) to low Earth orbit in a fully reusable configuration and 250 t (550,000 lb) when expended. Starship vehicles in low Earth orbit are planned to be refilled with propellant launched in tanker Starships to enable transit to higher energy destinations such as geosynchronous orbit, the Moon, and Mars.Plans for a heavy-lift vehicle at SpaceX date to 2005, with the earliest concept resembling the modern vehicle announced in 2016. SpaceX's Starship development follows an iterative and incremental approach involving frequent, and often destructive, test flights of prototype vehicles. The first and so far only orbital test flight was attempted on 20 April 2023, when an anomaly caused the vehicle to tumble out of control four minutes after launch. SpaceX activated the flight termination system, which fired the explosive charges but did not destroy the vehicle. Approximately 40 seconds later both stages were destroyed due to increased aerodynamic forces.  After the test, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grounded the launch program pending results of a standard "mishap investigation".SpaceX intends Starship to become its primary launch vehicle, superseding the Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy launch vehicles as well as the Dragon 2 spacecraft currently used as part of NASA's commercial crew program to the International Space Station. Starship is often coupled with the company's Mars ambitions. Planned Starship flights include the development of SpaceX's Starlink internet constellation, crewed flights under the Polaris and dearMoon programs, and two crewed lunar landings with a modified Starship spacecraft under the Artemis program.

History
Starting with a 2012 announcement of plans to develop a rocket with substantially greater capabilities than SpaceX's existing Falcon 9—underpinned by the ambition to enable human exploration and settlement of Mars—the company created a succession of preliminary designs for such a vehicle, under various names (Mars Colonial Transporter, Interplanetary Transport System, BFR) leading up to a 2019 adoption of a stainless-steel body design, which is also when the name changed to the current Starship. SpaceX has since been applying the iterative design methodology, using intensive tests on a series of rocket prototypes. The first prototype, Starhopper, performed several static fires and low-altitude flights. Seven of Starship's upper-stage prototypes were flight tested between August 2020 and May 2021. The last of the seven, a full-size Starship SN15, successfully landed after reaching an altitude of 10 kilometers (6.2 mi). A full-scale orbital test flight of the rocket took place on April 20, 2023.

Early design proposals
In 2007, Elon Musk publicly stated that he hopes to enable the exploration and settlement of Mars through SpaceX. SpaceX began developing the Raptor rocket engine before 2014. From 2011 to 2014, Musk made various statements expressing his hope that SpaceX would send humans to Mars in the 2020s to 2030s.

Mars Colonial Transporter
In October 2012, Musk made the first public articulation of plans to develop a fully reusable rocket system with substantially greater capabilities than SpaceX's existing Falcon 9. This new launch vehicle was intended to be part of the company's Mars system architecture, then known as the Mars Colonial Transporter/Mass Cargo Transport (MCT). According to SpaceX, the MCT system would include reusable rocket engines, launch vehicles and space capsules that would enable transportation of humans to Mars and back to Earth. SpaceX COO Gwynne Shotwell gave a potential payload range between 150-200 tonnes to low Earth orbit for the planned rocket. According to SpaceX, the MCT was to be "going to be much bigger [than Falcon 9]". In February 2014, the planned principal payload for the MCT was announced to be a large interplanetary spacecraft, designed to carry up to 100 tonnes (220,000 lb) of passengers and cargo. According to SpaceX engine development head Tom Mueller, SpaceX could use nine Raptor engines on a single spacecraft. The preliminary rocket design was to be at least 10 meters (33 ft) in diameter and was expected to have up to three cores totaling at least 27 booster engines.

Interplanetary Transport System
In 2016, Musk changed the name of the Mars Colonial Transporter system to the Interplanetary Transport System  (ITS), as he intended for the system to be capable of traveling beyond Mars. That same year he provided more details about the space mission architecture, launch vehicle, spacecraft, and Raptor engines. The ITS stack was to be composed of two stages, both powered by Raptor engines. A first stage booster, and a second stage that was to be either an "Interplanetary Spaceship" for crewed transport or an "ITS tanker" for orbital refueling. By that point, Raptor was a rocket engine in a full flow staged combustion cycle, with liquid methane fuel and liquid oxygen oxidizer. Both propellants enter the combustion chamber completely in the gas phase. A bleed-off of the high-pressure gas would provide autogenous pressurization of the propellant tanks, eliminating the Falcon 9's problematic high-pressure helium pressurization system.The overall launch vehicle height, (first and second stages), was to be 122 m (400 ft). Both stages were to have been constructed of carbon fiber, including the cryogenic propellant tanks, a major change for SpaceX from the Falcon 9's aluminum-lithium alloy tank and structure material. Both stages were to be fully reusable and were to land vertically. The ITS booster was to be a 12 m-diameter (39 ft), 77.5 m-high (254 ft), reusable first stage powered by 42 engines, each producing 3,024 kilonewtons (680,000 lbf) of thrust. Total booster thrust would have been about 128 MN (29,000,000 lbf) at liftoff, several times the 36 MN (8,000,000 lbf) thrust of the Saturn V. The engine configuration included 21 engines in an outer ring and 14 in an inner ring. The center cluster of seven engines was to be gimbaled for directional control, although some directional control  was to be performed via differential thrust on the fixed engines. 