The Turkish Women's Football Super League (Turkish: Kadınlar Süper Ligi), formerly the First Women's Football League (also known as the Turkcell Women's Football Super League for sponsorship reasons), is the top level women's football league of Turkey. In the 2022–23 season, one group of 10 teams and one group of nine teams play a double round robin and finals to decide a champion club, which qualifies for a spot in the UEFA Women's Champions League.On 8 March 2021, the International Women's Day, the Turkish Football Federation signed a sponsorship agreement with the Turkish mobile phone operator Turkcell. Accordingly, the First Women's Football League was named Turkcell Women's Super League (Turkish: Turkcell Kadın Süper Ligi) beginning with the 2021–22 season.

Format
In an effort to increase quality of the league, in the 2009–10 season two teams were relegated and four teams were promoted to the first league. Thus, the 2010–11 season consisted of twelve teams. Fashion One TV became the official media sponsor of the league for the 2010–11 season. At this time the league gained little attention in Turkey. After playing two groups with six teams and then having a championship and relegation group, the 2012–13 season was played as a double-round robin with ten teams again. The winner after 18 games was the champion and qualifies for the UEFA Women's Champions League, the bottom two teams get relegated. In 2016–17 there again was introduced a championship and relegation round after the regular season.
For the 2019-20 league season, the number of participating teams was increased from ten to twelve again after eight seasons. No relegation was planned to take place, so that the planned number of teams would be achieved with two promoted teams from the Women's Second League. However, Trabzon İdmanocağı had to be relegated since they did not show up in the entire previous season. To replace them, a third team from the Second League was promoted. All three women's leagues of the 2019-20 season were stopped on 8 March 2020 due to COVID-19 pandemic in Turkey.Due to the ongoing pandemic, the 2020-21 season of the Women's First Football League, after renaming the Turkcell Women's Football League, will take start with delay on 17 April 2021. The season was dedicated to healthcare workers, and named 2021 Turkish Turkcell Women's Football League Healthcare Workers' Season (Turkish: 2021 Sağlık Çalışanları Futbol Ligi). The league consisted of 16 teams, including all the 12 teams from the previous season and 4 teams promoted from the Second League's previous season. The teams were divided into four groups of four teams each, with one promoted team in each group. Each team in the group played only three matches in a round-robin tournament. The top two teams of the four groups play quarter-finals and semi-finals in Single-elimination tournament. The winner of the final match, on 4 May 2021, represented Turkey at the 2021–22 UEFA Women's Champions League.

Clubs
Past winners
Winners by team
League participation (since 2006)
Note: The tallies below include up to the 2022–23 season. Teams denoted in bold are current participants.

Foreign players
Top goalscorers
See also
Women's football in Turkey
Turkish Women's Football First League
Turkish Women's Second Football League
Turkish Women's Third Football League
Turkish Women's Regional Football League
List of women's football clubs in Turkey
Turkish women in sports

References
External links

Official Site (in Turkish) of the Turkish Football Federation