Eintracht Frankfurt pulverised Bayern Munich 5-1 with a sensational three-goal first-half performance to snap the champions’ unbeaten run in the Bundesliga this season. In an explosive first half, Eintracht completely overran Bayern and exposed their error-prone backline, scoring three times in 24 minutes.

Omar Marmoush opened their account in the 12th minute, drilling in the rebound after Fares Chaibi had hit the crossbar following a miskick from Bayern’s Noussair Mazraoui. After yet more slapdash defending from Bayern, Éric Dina Ebimbe doubled their lead in the 31st minute and Hugo Larsson made it 3-0 five minutes later, benefiting from a Joshua Kimmich error. Kimmich made amends just before the break with a powerful shot from 20 yards to cut the deficit but it did not stop the home side.

Eintracht put the ball in the net again, five minutes after the restart, to make it 4-1, outplaying Bayern with another textbook quick break and with Ebimbe beating Manuel Neuer for his second goal of the afternoon. Ansgar Knauff then slotted in to make it 5-1 on the hour as Frankfurt became the first team in 48 years to score five goals in one hour against Bayern in the Bundesliga since their own 6-0 win in 1975.

Quick Guide How do I sign up for sport breaking news alerts? Show Download the Guardian app from the iOS App Store on iPhone or the Google Play store on Android by searching for 'The Guardian'.

If you already have the Guardian app, make sure you’re on the most recent version.

In the Guardian app, tap the Menu button at the bottom right, then go to Settings (the gear icon), then Notifications.

Turn on sport notifications. Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback.

“There is no need for an explanation,” said Bayern’s midfielder Thomas Müller. “We have to congratulate Frankfurt who deserved the win. They took the fight out of us in that first half hour. When you lose 5-1 then a reaction has to follow. We won’t lose our heads now. We don’t have enough time but we will bounce back.”

Bayern, who have a game in hand after last week’s game against Union Berlin was postponed due to snow, remain in second place on 32 points, with the leaders, Bayer Leverkusen, on 35, travelling to third-placed VfB Stuttgart, who have 30 points, on Sunday.

Later, RB Leipzig beat 10-man Borussia Dortmund 3-2 to tighten their grip on fourth place and put a further dent in their opponents’ title hopes.

It started badly for the hosts with Mats Hummels sent off for a last-man foul at the edge of the box in the 15th minute, then a Ramy Bensebaini own goal put the visitors in front just after the half-hour.

Dortmund equalised with the last kick of the first half when Niklas Suele volleyed in from the far post. But it was only a matter of time until Leipzig scored again and they did it with Christoph Baumgartner in the 54th.

With Dortmund taking risks in search of an equaliser, Leipzig launched a counterattack and Yussuf Poulsen rifled in before Niclas Füllkrug scored deep in stoppage time for some last-gasp drama. Leipzig are fourth on 29 points and now have a four-point lead over Dortmund in fifth place.

A stunning goal from Real Betis’s Aitor Ruibal cancelled out Jude Bellingham’s strike for Real Madrid early in the second half to earn the home side a 1-1 draw in La Liga. Real Madrid remain top of the table with 39 points, one ahead of Girona, who visit third-placed Barcelona on Sunday.

Real Betis’s Aitor Ruibal (centre) celebrates after scoring the equaliser against Real Madrid. Photograph: Jose Breton/AP

Bellingham gave the visitors the lead with a fine low finish after Brahim Díaz’s brilliant chipped pass on the edge of the box eight minutes after half-time. The English midfielder reached 15 goals in 17 games across all competitions this season.

Betis bounced back in the 66th minute when Ruibal equalised with a long-range rocket into the far corner.

Internazionale defeated lowly visitors Udinese 4-0 with a dominant performance highlighted by a superb long-range effort from Lautaro Martínez to regain the Serie A top spot on Saturday. Inter moved two points clear of second-placed Juventus, who had a 1-0 home win over champions Napoli on Friday.

skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to Football Daily Free daily newsletter Kick off your evenings with the Guardian's take on the world of football Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion



Inter took the lead with a penalty by Hakan Calhanoglu in the 36th minute after a foul by defender Nehuén Pérez on Martínez which was reviewed by VAR.

Five minutes later Federico Dimarco fired an unstoppable left-foot shot into the corner of the net after an assist from Calhanoglu before Marcus Thuram netted with a superb finish two minutes later from Henrikh Mkhitaryan’s cross into the box.

Martínez’s stunning effort from distance in the 85th wrapped up a convincing win.

Atalanta snatched a 3-2 victory at home to Milan thanks to a back-heel flick in added time from Luis Muriel after a double from Ademola Lookman. Muriel struck in the 95th minute after the Milan defender Davide Calabria had been dismissed for a second booking two minutes earlier.

Milan, for whom Olivier Giroud and Christian Pulisic scored equalisers, remain third on 29 points, Atalanta are seventh on 23.

Randal Kolo Muani’s late goal helped Paris Saint-Germain to a 2-1 win over Nantes to claim their eighth consecutive Ligue 1 win and extend their lead at the top. PSG moved up to 36 points, six points clear of Monaco, who beat Rennes 2-1. Third-placed Nice are on 29 points and will host Reims on Sunday.

Bradley Barcola opened the scoring in the 41st minute when he found space in the six-yard box after a solo run from the left. Mostafa Mohamed equalised for the visitors in the 55th minute from a corner, heading home from close range.

Kolo Muani restored the lead for PSG seven minutes from time by capitalising on a rebound after a save by the visitors’ keeper following a set piece.