In the final weeks of the fantasy football regular season, rolling out a strong receiver corps comprised of wideouts set up for high usage days is every fantasy owner's goal. Having those WRs in plus matchups makes it even more likely you'll end the week in the win column. Our Week 13 fantasy WR PPR rankings can help pinpoint all the studs and sleepers at fantasy's deepest position.

There aren't as many studs or sleepers this week, as six byes and some inopportune injuries thin out our rankings. Nonetheless, we still have to fill out the same number of starting spots in our lineups, so those in 12-team leagues might have to dig deep to find decent WR3s and flexes. That's where we come in.

Now that we know the backdrop to this pivotal week, let's break down our Week 13 WR rankings.

MORE: Watch NFL RedZone live with Sling (50% off first month)

Which WRs are on bye in Week 13?

With the Ravens, Bills, Vikings, Raiders, Giants, and Bears idle in Week 13, that means Davante Adams, Stefon Diggs, Justin Jefferson, DJ Moore, Zay Flowers, Jakobi Meyers, and Jordan Addison are among the most notable wideouts omitted from our rankings. Deep-league owners will also be without Odell Beckham Jr., K.J. Osborn, Gabe Davis, Jalin Hyatt, and Khalil Shakir.

WEEK 13 PPR RANKINGS:

QBs | RBs | TEs | D/STs | Kickers

Unfortunately, we also won't get to pick on the poor WR defenses of the Giants and Vikings, but it's a relief to see the Ravens' shut-down secondary on the sidelines.

WEEK 13 STANDARD RANKINGS:

QBs | RBs | WRs | TEs | D/STs | Kickers

Who are the best fantasy WRs in Week 13?

Tyreek Hill (@ Commanders in Week 13) did his thing despite a tough matchup in Week 12, resulting in Miami's WR1 returning to the top spot against a putrid Washington stop unit. CeeDee Lamb (vs. Seahawks) isn't far behind, as Dallas' WR1 aims to maintain his efficient play against Seattle.

Amon-Ra St. Brown (@ Saints) has been a target hog the past several weeks, seeing at least nine looks in each of his past six games. Don't expect his workload to decrease in a bounce-back game for the Lions. Keenan Allen (@ Patriots) looks to continue his dominant ways, as Justin Herbert's go-to target routinely has double-digit target potential.

Mike Evans (vs. Panthers) sits in our top five for Week 13, totaling four TDs over the past three weeks. A.J. Brown (vs. 49ers) faces a sound San Francisco coverage unit in Sunday's NFC Championship rematch, but his ability to dominate in the red zone still makes him a top-10 PPR play. Ja'Marr Chase (@ Jaguars) averaged over 20 yards per reception in Week 12, and although the drop-off from Joe Burrow to Jake Browning is massive, Chase still has WR1 upside given his usage.

Michael Pittman Jr. (@ Texans) faces a Texans' pass defense that's been shredded the past few weeks, so another 100-yard receiving day could be in store. Jaylen Waddle (@ Commanders) is also looking to post his second consecutive 100-plus yard day, which could come to fruition against a struggling Commanders' coverage unit. Tank Dell (vs. Broncos) continues to rise up our PPR rankings, rounding out our top 10 as a trusted option of C.J. Stroud's.

WEEK 13 FANTASY ADVICE: Sleepers | Busts | Projections | Start-sit

Who are the best fantasy WR sleepers, waiver pickups in Week 13?

Curtis Samuel (vs. Dolphins), Jayden Reed (vs. Chiefs), Lynn Bowden Jr. (vs. Lions), Jonathan Mingo (@ Buccaneers), Cedric Tillman (@ Rams), and DeVante Parker (vs. Chargers) profile as this week's crop of sleepers and waiver-wire adds.

Samuel saw a heavy dosage of targets in Week 12, and with Washington passing at a high clip, another high-usage day could be in store. Reed's scored in three straight games and while he has a higher ceiling in standard formats, he still has flex appeal in a potentially negative game script.

Bowden Jr., alongside A.T. Perry and Keith Kirkwood, are the only healthy Saints WRs right now, and a favorable matchup against Detroit gives each some flex value in deep leagues. Mingo also draws a plus matchup against a reeling Buccaneers secondary, as a potential negative game script should boost his Week 13 fantasy ceiling.

Tillman is another talented rookie who's getting more run as the season progresses, and although P.J. Walker's struggled under center, Tillman is set up for a high-usage day against the Rams with Amari Cooper (ribs) banged up.

WEEK 13 DFS:

DK lineup | FD lineup | Best stacks | Best values

Who are the biggest potential WR busts in Week 13?

Beware of Terry McLaurin (vs. Dolphins), Puka Nacua and Tutu Atwell (vs. Browns), Drake London (@ Jets), and Tyler Lockett and Jaxon Smith-Njigba (@ Cowboys) this week.

McLaurin's averaging just 42 receiving yards over his past three games, and a heavy dosage of Jalen Ramsey hinders his Week 13 fantasy value.

Nacua and Atwell see a Cleveland coverage unit who entered Week 12 allowing the fewest fantasy points per game to WRs. Heck, even Cooper Kupp, who hasn't looked like himself of late, could underperform again.

We can't trust London and the rest of the Falcons passing offense against a well-rounded Jets defense. To make matters worse, he'll be matched up against Sauce Gardner for most of the day, too.

Lockett and Smith-Njigba might be better suited for the bench in PPR leagues against a lockdown Dallas coverage unit. Geno Smith's struggles complicate their fantasy prospects, as well.

What are the biggest WR injuries in Week 13?

Entering Week 12, Tee Higgins (hamstring), Noah Brown (knee), Treylon Burks (concussion), and Kadarius Toney (ankle, hip) all failed to suit up due to nagging injuries. For now, we've placed Higgins and Brown in our Week 13 list and omitted Burks and Toney. We'll also be eyeing the Chargers' Josh Palmer (knee), who's eligible to come off the IR this week but probably won't suit up against New England.

Last week, the most notable WRs to exit their respective games with injuries include Chris Olave (concussion), Amari Cooper (ribs), Demario Douglas (concussion), and Rashid Shaheed (thigh). We've left all four WRs out of our initial Week 13 list but will closely monitor their teams' injury reports to gauge their playing prospects.

As usual, we'll update these WR PPR rankings throughout the week, so check back for the latest player movement and analysis.

Fantasy WR PPR Rankings Week 13: Who to start, sit at wide receiver

Rankings based on PPR scoring formats

Rank Player

1 Tyreek Hill, Dolphins @ Commanders

2 CeeDee Lamb, Cowboys vs. Seahawks

3 Amon-Ra St. Brown, Lions @ Saints

4 Keenan Allen, Chargers @ Patriots

5 Mike Evans, Buccaneers vs. Panthers

6 A.J. Brown, Eagles vs. 49ers

7 Michael Pittman Jr., Colts @ Titans

8 Ja'Marr Chase, Bengals @ Jaguars

9 Jaylen Waddle, Dolphins @ Commanders

10 Tank Dell, Texans vs. Broncos

11 Brandon Aiyuk, 49ers @ Eagles

12 Garrett Wilson, Jets vs. Falcons

13 Calvin Ridley, Jaguars vs. Bengals

14 Cooper Kupp, Rams vs. Browns

15 DeVonta Smith, Eagles vs. 49ers

16 DK Metcalf, Seahawks @ Cowboys

17 Chris Olave, Saints vs. Lions

18 Deebo Samuel, 49ers @ Eagles

19 DeAndre Hopkins, Titans vs. Colts

20 Courtland Sutton, Broncos @ Texans

21 Christian Kirk, Jaguars vs. Bengals

22 Terry McLaurin, Commanders vs. Dolphins

23 Nico Collins, Texans vs. Broncos

24 Rashee Rice, Chiefs @ Packers

25 Puka Nacua, Rams vs. Browns

26 Chris Godwin, Buccaneers vs. Panthers

27 Marquise Brown, Cardinals @ Steelers

28 Christian Watson, Packers vs. Chiefs

29 Adam Thielen, Panthers @ Buccaneers

30 Romeo Doubs, Packers vs. Chiefs

31 Diontae Johnson, Steelers vs. Cardinals

32 Tee Higgins, Bengals @ Jaguars

33 George Pickens, Steelers vs. Cardinals

34 Jerry Jeudy, Broncos @ Texans

35 Tyler Lockett, Seahawks @ Cowboys

36 Drake London, Falcons @ Jets

37 Noah Brown, Texans vs. Broncos

38 Josh Downs, Colts @ Titans

39 Brandin Cooks, Cowboys vs. Seahawks

40 DeVante Parker, Patriots vs. Chargers

41 Jahan Dotson, Commanders vs. Dolphins

42 Jayden Reed, Packers vs. Chiefs

43 Amari Cooper, Browns @ Rams

44 Jaxon Smith-Njigba, Seahawks @ Cowboys

45 Curtis Samuel, Commanders vs. Dolphins

46 Elijah Moore, Browns @ Rams

47 Rondale Moore, Cardinals @ Steelers

48 Tyler Boyd, Bengals vs. Jaguars

49 Robert Woods, Texans vs. Broncos

50 Jonathan Mingo, Panthers @ Buccaneers

51 Jameson Williams, Lions @ Saints

52 Zay Jones, Jaguars vs. Bengals

53 Tutu Atwell, Rams vs. Browns

54 Greg Dortch, Cardinals @ Steelers

55 Jalen Guyton, Chargers @ Patriots

56 Lynn Bowden Jr., Saints vs. Lions

57 Quentin Johnston, Chargers @ Patriots

58 Justin Watson, Chiefs @ Packers

59 Treylon Burks, Titans vs. Colts

60 Josh Reynolds, Lions @ Saints

61 Keith Kirkwood, Saints vs. Lions

62 Cedric Tillman, Browns @ Rams

63 Trey Palmer, Buccaneers vs. Panthers

64 A.T. Perry, Saints vs. Lions

65 Michael Gallup, Cowboys vs. Seahawks

66 JuJu Smith-Schuster, Patriots vs. Chargers

67 Kalif Raymond, Lions @ Saints

68 DJ Chark, Panthers @ Buccaneers

69 Skyy Moore, Chiefs @ Packers

70 Dontayvion Wicks, Packers vs. Chiefs

71 Trenton Irwin, Bengals @ Jaguars

72 Nick Westbrook-Ikhine, Titans vs. Colts

73 Cedrick Wilson, Dolphins @ Commanders

74 Marquez Valdes-Scantling, Chiefs @ Packers

75 Alec Pierce, Colts @ Titans

76 Chris Moore, Titans vs. Colts

Week 13 WR PPR fantasy projections, rankings from Draft Sharks

Draft Sharks projections for the new week will update every Tuesday and be constantly adjusted throughout the week

We're proud to offer SN Fantasy readers an exclusive look at Draft Sharks’ award-winning projections and rankings every week. To see Draft Sharks' Week 13 3D floor-to-ceiling projections for wide receivers -- plus get access to all of Draft Sharks' industry-leading tools -- become a Draft Sharks' member today at the link below!

TRY DRAFT SHARKS FREE: Dominate with exclusive tools, including Free-Agent Finder & Trade Navigator!