The Bears and Panthers entered Thursday night looking for progress, not playoff contention. If any team achieved that goal, it was Chicago.

It wasn't an aesthetically pleasing game, but that was never the expectation. The Bears grinded out a 16-13 victory behind a terrific defensive performance, a solid running game, and a few timely throws by Tyson Bagent.

The Panthers jumped out to an early lead on a punt returned for a touchdown by Ihmir Smith-Marsette, but they never found the end zone again. The only offensive touchdown of the night came in the third quarter, when D'Onta Foreman rumbled his way into the end zone to give Chicago a 16-10 lead.

NFL WEEK 10 PICKS: Straight up | Against the spread

As it turned out, 16 points was all the Bears needed. After Eddy Pineiro cut Carolina's deficit to three early in the fourth quarter, Frank Reich put his trust in Pineiro again with the game on the line, sending him out for a 59-yard attempt on fourth-and-10 in the final minutes rather than trusting the offense to pick up the 10 yards. Pineiro's kick was short.

While the decision to kick from 59 yards out might be second-guessed, Carolina's offense didn't give Reich much reason to believe. Bryce Young struggled to develop any kind of rhythm through the first three quarters, and even the Panthers' most successful drives were laborious, consistently requiring conversions on third and fourth down.

While Young got little help from his receivers, who failed to get open all night, his struggles — including multiple passes that were nearly intercepted — are a reminder that the Panthers' offense is still a long way from resembling anything like the unit owner David Tepper envisioned when the franchise traded for the No. 1 pick in March.

MORE: Why Frank Reich's job might already be at risk

The Bears (3-7) are hoping to get Justin Fields back in time for their Week 11 game in Detroit, but they've gotten a shot in the arm from Bagent, who improved to 2-2 as a starter with the win. The victory on Thursday was a win-win for Chicago, as the franchise owns the first-round pick of the Panthers (1-8).

The Sporting News tracked live scoring updates and highlights from Bears vs. Panthers on "Thursday Night Football." Check out all of the key moments you might have missed.

Bears vs. Panthers final score

1 2 3 4 F Panthers 7 3 0 3 13 Bears 3 6 7 0 16

Bears vs. Panthers results, highlights from Thursday Night Football

(All times Eastern)

Final: Bears 16, Panthers 13

11:11 p.m. — And now this one is officially over. The Bears pick up their third win of the season, while Carolina drops to 1-8 and faces more tough questions about Bryce Young and the offense.

11:08 p.m. — Bagent hits Mooney for the first down on 3rd & 7, and the Panthers now won't be able to stop the clock.

11:06 p.m. — Pineiro's attempt is SHORT from 59 yards out. The gamble fails for Frank Reich. The Panthers will hope to get the ball back.

11:04 p.m. — Young is very nearly intercepted on 3rd & 10, and the Panthers say they've seen enough of the offense. Eddy Pineiro is attempting a 59-yard field goal to tie the game.

11:00 p.m. — Miles Sanders gets himself wide open on fourth down to extend the drive. The Panthers are 3-for-3 on fourth down tonight despite their severe struggles for much of the game.

Bryce Young to Miles Sanders for the 2nd fourth down conversion of the drive#CARvsCHI on Prime Video

Also available on #NFLPlus pic.twitter.com/Moaaj7cpqw — NFL (@NFL) November 10, 2023

10:58 p.m. — It'll be fourth and about two yards when the Panthers return from the two-minute warning... Carolina is trying to claw its way into field goal range.

10:57 p.m. — Thielen comes through with a nice catch on the run to give Carolina another first down.

10:56 p.m. — Hayden Hurst with a bad drop on 2nd & 3. That would've opened up the field a bit for the Panthers.

10:54 p.m. — Young drops back on 4th & Inches from deep in his own territory, but fortunately for Carolina he's able to run to the right and pick up the first down. The Panthers still have plenty of ground to cover to get into field goal range.

Bryce Young does just enough to extend the drive on 4th and inches#CARvsCHI on Prime Video

Also available on #NFLPlus pic.twitter.com/YWvltQGepB — NFL (@NFL) November 10, 2023

10:52 p.m. — The tush-push doesn't work for everyone. The Panthers try to push Chuba Hubbard forward on 3rd & 1, and he goes nowhere. It looks like they'll go for it again.

10:49 p.m. — Deion Jones makes a great tackle to drop Roschon Johnson for a three-yard loss. The Bears will punt, giving the Panthers a chance to tie the game or more.

10:46 p.m. — Bagent finds Kmet for a first down and more. Another nice play by Kmet, who has become a trusted target for Bagent in these four starts for the rookie.

Bears 16, Panthers 13

10:42 p.m. FIELD GOAL — Pineiro's kick is good, and the Panthers now trail by a field goal.

10:41 p.m. — Young's pass to Marshall is incomplete on third down. Marshall was well-defended, but he probably should've had that. It'll be a field goal try for Carolina.

10:38 p.m. — You have to give some credit to Carolina's offense for converting, as Young finds Tremble for the first down on 4th & 6. The Panthers turn a 1st & 30 into a fresh set of downs.

10:37 p.m. — A neutral zone infraction pulls the Panthers a bit closer, and they will line up to go for it on 4th & 6...

End of third quarter: Bears 16, Panthers 10

10:32 p.m. — The Panthers run it with Chuba Hubbard on 1st & 30. They're not showing much interest in letting Bryce Young air it out, even while trailing in a lost season.

10:31 p.m. — It's 1st & 30 for the Panthers after back-to-back penalties. That's one way to erase great field position.

10:29 p.m. — A less than impressive punt by Trenton Gill sets up Carolina well inside Bears territory. If there was ever a time for the Panthers' offense to get something going...

10:28 p.m. — After an offensive pass interference call backs up the Bears, Chicago shows no interest in taking a shot and hands it off on 3rd & 19. The Panthers will have solid field position.

10:26 p.m. — The Bears come out with three Foreman runs in four plays. After turnovers doomed them last week, they're playing it conservatively.

10:21 p.m. — Young throws behind the line of scrimmage on 3rd & 15, which doesn't tend to convert. It'll be a Panthers punt, giving the Bears poor field position in the process.

10:19 p.m. — Now Young hits Adam Thielen for another first down. How about that? Carolina is just about to midfield.

10:18 p.m. — A rare first down for the Panthers as Young throws to Marshall for an 11-yard gain.

Bears 16, Panthers 10

10:13 p.m. TOUCHDOWN — Foreman runs it in for the score! That's the first offensive touchdown of the night, and it gives the Bears their first lead of the night.

10:12 p.m. — A well-designed play is broken up by Donte Jackson in the end zone after the Bears pick up the first down.

10:11 p.m. — The Bears are inching their way toward the goal line...it's 3rd & 1 from the five.

10:10 p.m. — Foreman runs 11 yards for a first down, and the Bears are already in field goal range thanks to strong starting field position.

10:06 p.m. — Outside of a 45-yard completion to Mike Strachan, Young is 7-of-16 for 24 yards. It's tough to recall any positive moments for the Panthers' offense tonight aside from that one play. Carolina has serious questions to answer.

10:05 p.m. — Young gets a few yards back but is sacked by Yannick Ngakoue on third down. The Panthers will punt again.

Yannick Ngakoue gets his team off the field on 3rd down 😤#CARvsCHI on Prime Video

Also available on #NFLPlus pic.twitter.com/JPt1xc3b93 — NFL (@NFL) November 10, 2023

10:04 p.m. — Bryce Young is now lining up in his own end zone after Miles Sanders was dropped for a six-yard loss.

10:01 p.m. — Punt. Again.

9:57 p.m. — The Panthers get a grand total of one yard (-4 including a delay of game penalty) and punt it away less than a minute into the first half.

End of first half: Panthers 10, Bears 9

9:40 p.m. FIELD GOAL — In a game that might be lucky to see an offensive touchdown, the Bears deserve some credit for that drive to work their way into field goal range. They trail 10-9 at the half.

9:39 p.m. — Bagent narrowly avoids a sack and actually runs for positive yardage to move Santos' attempt closer. Chicago is down to three seconds, so here comes Santos.

9:38 p.m. — A perfectly executed play to get the ball to Cole Kmet, who picks up the first down and then some but still gets out of bounds to stop the clock. The Bears are in field goal range.

The always reliable Cole Kmet gets the Bears into field goal range before the end of the half 👀#CARvsCHI on Prime Video

Also available on #NFLPlus pic.twitter.com/ArYhsjmh7M — NFL (@NFL) November 10, 2023

9:37 p.m. — The Panthers could use this D.J. Moore guy. Moore with a 14-yard grab to take the Bears into Carolina territory and give Chicago a real chance at points here. 46 seconds left.

9:34 p.m. — The Bears still have plenty of ground to make up to get into field goal range, but a 15-yard unnecessary roughness penalty on Deion Jones helps inch them closer.

9:29 p.m. — Tyrique Stevenson comes VERY close to a interception on an errant pass by Young, and the Panthers will punt with just over a minute left in the half.

9:28 p.m. — An illegal contact penalty, the second of the night on the Bears, gives Carolina a fresh set of downs.

9:25 p.m. — The Panthers will have 3rd & 3 out of the two-minute warning, just hoping to get in position for some points before halftime. They'll start the second half with the ball as well.

Panthers 10, Bears 6

9:19 p.m. FIELD GOAL — Bagent is fortunate just to hold onto a bad snap, but his pass is incomplete and brings out Cairo Santos. It's 10-6, Panthers.

9:17 p.m. — A second big play by rookie Tyler Scott, who catches a 15-yard pass from Bagent to give the Bears a fresh set of downs. Chicago is into field goal range.

Rookie-to-rookie for a key first down 👀#CARvsCHI on Prime Video

Also available on #NFLPlus pic.twitter.com/nIw42qweEE — NFL (@NFL) November 10, 2023

9:14 p.m. — Bagent hits Roschon Johnson for a first down to give the Bears some life. Chicago started with very strong field position, so this could quickly become a rare scoring opportunity.

9:11 p.m. — A sack by Justin Jones quickly ends the Panthers' drive. Three-and-out for Carolina.

9:07 p.m. — A promising drive ends in a punt for the Bears. Carolina has a chance to extend its lead to two possessions if Bryce Young can build on that 44-yard completion he had last time he was on the field.

Justin Jones brings the heat to force a punt 😤#CARvsCHI on Prime Video

Also available on #NFLPlus pic.twitter.com/wyEgT3GZ7q — NFL (@NFL) November 10, 2023

9:05 p.m. — A holding call sets the Bears back to 2nd & 20...

9:03 p.m. — After Foreman pushes forward for a key first down, rookie Tyler Scott takes off for 16 yards to take the Bears over midfield. Chicago is looking to tie the game on this drive.

9:00 p.m. — Sexiest Man Alive Jason Kelce is in the booth with Al Michaels and Kirk Herbstreit to start the second quarter.

Panthers 10, Bears 3

8:55 p.m. FIELD GOAL — Young comes under pressure on 3rd & 11 and just throws it into the ground. Former Bears kicker Eddy Pineiro drills the field goal, so Carolina still adds to its lead.

End of first quarter: Panthers 7, Bears 3

8:50 p.m. — Young throws downfield and hits Mike Strachan for a 44-yard gain. Mike Strachan? Mike Strachan. The Panthers are suddenly in business in Bears territory.

Mike Strachan's first catch as a Panther goes for 45 yards!#CARvsCHI on Prime Video

Also available on #NFLPlus pic.twitter.com/15stE4IGAz — NFL (@NFL) November 10, 2023

Panthers 7, Bears 3

8:45 p.m. — Santos drills it anyway! A 54-yard kick. The Bears cut the deficit to 7-3.

8:44 p.m. — A false start by Cody Whitehair erases what would've been a good 49-yard field goal...the Bears will keep Cairo Santos out there.

8:43 p.m. — Chicago will try a field goal from 49 yards out after the drive fizzles out.

8:41 p.m. — Foreman has been the Bears' best weapon tonight. He rips off an 11-yard run and now has 43 scrimmage yards in this first quarter.

8:40 p.m. — The Bears rattle off two first downs on their first three plays, with Moore and Foreman grabbing passes from Bagent to take Chicago over midfield.

Panthers 7, Bears 0

8:36 p.m. TOUCHDOWN — Ihmir Smith-Marsette returns the punt 79 yards for a touchdown! On a night that could be defined by bad offense, the Panthers get a huge early boost from their special teams unit. Carolina leads, 7-0.

Ihmir Smith-Marsette takes one back against his former team 🏠📞#CARvsCHI on Prime Video

Also available on #NFLPlus pic.twitter.com/4MTENIL0r6 — NFL (@NFL) November 10, 2023

8:35 p.m. — Bagent throws incomplete on third down, and the Bears will punt for the second time tonight.

8:33 p.m. — Darnell Mooney goes for a first down after a nice run by D'Onta Foreman set up a 3rd & 2. The Bears have some breathing room.

8:29 p.m. — Johnny Hekker pins the Bears at the one, so it'll be an uphill battle for Bagent and the offense on this upcoming drive.

Johnny Hekker punts it to the 1 and @PatMcAfeeShow nods in approval somewhere#CARvsCHI on Prime Video

Also available on #NFLPlus pic.twitter.com/WKffggayuG — NFL (@NFL) November 10, 2023

8:28 p.m. — Young is forced to throw it away on third down, so he Panthers will punt from just past midfield.

8:26 p.m. — Young misses a wide open Terrace Marshall Jr. on second down, sailing the pass too high.

8:25 p.m. — Two third downs, two scrambles for a first down by Young. He's not exactly known for his mobility, but he's far from immobile. Now let's see whether the Panthers can get the passing game going at all.

Second straight third down that ends in a scramble for a first down by Bryce Young#CARvsCHI on Prime Video

Also available on #NFLPlus pic.twitter.com/mC5txmYqzP — NFL (@NFL) November 10, 2023

8:23 p.m. — Nice awareness by Bryce Young to run for the first down on 3rd & 7, and the Panthers add five extra yards on an illegal contact penalty against Chicago.

8:21 p.m. — Donte Jackson comes through with a nice pass breakup on third down, and the Bears will punt shortly after the quick first down.

8:19 p.m. — D.J. Moore instantly makes an impact against his former team with a 16-yard grab.

8:17 p.m. — Bagent and the Bears offense will start with the ball, and we are underway!

8:09 p.m. — Perhaps the most interesting storyline tonight will be whether Al Michaels can keep a brave face throughout what might not be the most appealing game.

8:00 p.m. — We're going to keep spirits high tonight despite a matchup of teams with a combined three wins. All football is good football! Let's see how long this mentality lasts...

7:46 p.m. — It's 52 degrees and clear in Chicago right now, so certainly not as cold as it could be in the Windy City this time of year. Still, it's a rare colder-weather game for Bryce Young.

7:30 p.m. — The Bears will be donning orange tonight, including an alternate orange helmet.

7:10 p.m. — D.J. Moore is back facing his former team tonight, eight months after he was traded to the Bears in the deal that sent the No. 1 pick to Carolina.

6:50 p.m. — Standout edge rusher Brian Burns is out with a concussion, dealing a major blow to the Panthers' defense.

Brian Burns, CJ Henderson and DJ Chark among inactives.https://t.co/mL8EYWQKTs — Carolina Panthers (@Panthers) November 9, 2023

6:35 p.m. — Bryce Young threw an interception in only one of his last five games before crashing back to Earth with three picks against the Colts last week. More than ever, it feels like this game will be won by the quarterback who can avoid turnovers. Bagent has thrown five picks in his last two starts.

6:15 p.m. — Tyson Bagent will get the start for the Bears tonight, so it'll be an undrafted rookie facing a rookie No. 1 pick. Despite that, Chicago is favored.

Bears vs. Panthers start time

Date: Thursday, Nov. 9

Thursday, Nov. 9 Start time: 8:15 p.m. ET

Thursday night's game between the Bears and Panthers is set to kick off at 8:15 p.m. ET (7:15 p.m. local time) from Soldier Field in Chicago.

What channel is Bears vs. Panthers on today?

Game: Chicago Bears vs. Carolina Panthers

Chicago Bears vs. Carolina Panthers Date: Thursday, Nov. 9

Thursday, Nov. 9 TV channel (Chicago) : WFLD (Channel 32)

: WFLD (Channel 32) TV channel (Charlotte) : WSOC (Channel 9)

: WSOC (Channel 9) Live stream: Amazon Prime Video | DAZN (in Canada)

For the masses of NFL fans across the U.S., Thursday's clash between the Bears and Panthers will be aired on Amazon Prime Video. The broadcast will be spearheaded by play-by-play announcer Al Michaels and color commentator Kirk Herbstreit. Sideline reporter Kaylee Hartung will offer sideline updates throughout the game.

Fans in the Chicago and Charlotte markets can watch the Amazon broadcast over the air on local channels.

Those in Canada can stream it on DAZN, which carries every NFL game all season.