For Detroit, it's all about courage. For a team that was once down and out, much like their city, they are now once again on the rise. The Lions are supposed to be the kings of the jungle and hope to become the NFL's version in 2023. In terms of the food chain, a basic concept taught in science classes across the country, lions are the hunter rather than the hunted, but it's been the other way around for far too long, as 31 other teams have feasted on a once proud franchise.

Their motors have been restored and the team has been rebuilt with an attitude and moxie that would make even the most "football guy" of "football guys" blush. It's a combination of quiet confidence and a downright arrogant confidence that draws people in to root for -- or against -- an underdog.

While the Packers have packed up the Lions for years, that all began to change in 2022. Aaron Rodgers is no longer in Green Bay, and a new love interest is now under center, Jordan Love. It was these Lions that ended the Rodgers era and swept Green Bay last season. Now they meet again in prime time on one of the league's most hallowed grounds in a battle for NFC North supremacy. The tundra won't be frozen at Lambeau Field at this point in the season, but the game sure is important, and for a game like this, there's no way we could pass up the chance to win some cash with our FanDuel single-game DFS lineup.

MORE THURSDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL:

DK lineup | Best props | Betting preview | Start-Sit

Before we break down our picks and strategy, here are the most notable scoring rules for FanDuel contests: four-point passing TDs and half-point PPR.

TNF INJURY UPDATES: Montgomery | Jones | Watson

Lions-Packers FanDuel Picks Week 4: NFL DFS lineup for GPP tournaments

Lions-Packers TNF, $60,000 budget

MVP (1.5x points) QB Jared Goff, Lions ($15,500). The Lions might not be the Super Bowl contenders we thought they could be, but that doesn't mean we aren't in for a treat on Thursday night at Lambeau Field. Detroit is finding its footing in 2023 and should be able to have some success against the Packers. On the surface, Green Bay's pass defense is playing around league average, allowing 207.3 passing yards per game. That slots them in at No. 18, while Pro Football Focus grades them the No. 8 team in coverage with an 81.5. Let's look beneath the surface a little more. The Packers' first three games have come against the No. 15, 29, and 31 ranked teams in passing yards per game, or the No. 21, 29, and 32 passing offenses as graded by PFF. The Lions love to throw and have a quarterback that rarely turns it over. Goff should be in position for a solid night with his arm, lighting it up through the air against a defense that might be without their star corner, Jaire Alexander (back), again in Week 4.

FLEX QB Jordan Love, Packers ($16,000). From one quarterback to another, we like this game to feature a lot of points. It's something that doesn't happen often on "Thursday Night Football," but that should change this week. The Lions seem incapable of playing in low-scoring, grind-it-out games, so there will be chances for Love to get the Packers on the scoreboard often. He has seven passing touchdowns through the first three weeks and faces a bottom-10 passing defense, per PFF. Love will enjoy a date with Detroit's banged-up secondary that is just beginning life without C.J. Gardner-Johnson (pec).

FLEX WR Romeo Doubs ($10,500). Christian Watson appears primed for a return on Thursday night, but does it really matter? With him being held out for multiple weeks with a hamstring injury, we question the type of workload that the former North Dakota State standout is in line for. As a result, we look to Doubs. The second-year receiver is tied for the team lead in targets and has the most touchdowns with three. Along with Jayden Reed, Doubs has been a favorite of Love's in the red zone, as the duo has combined for 12-of-16 targets to receivers. As Watson eases his way back in, it's not like Doubs will fall off a cliff in terms of production. He remains relevant with that type of connection forming.

FLEX TE Sam LaPorta, Lions ($10,000). Rookie tight ends aren't typically fantasy-relevant right away, but that's where LaPorta finds himself, becoming a favorite target of Goff. He's been on an upward trajectory, starting with five targets in Week 1, six in Week 2, and 11 in Week 3. He's totaled 39, 63, and 84 yards, respectively, in those games, scoring a touchdown in the most recent contest. The Packers are a middle-of-the-road group against tight ends, but they still haven't faced one in a passing offense that lives up to LaPorta's level. On a short week with some banged-up players on offense, LaPorta should be a heavily involved security blanket.

FLEX TE, Luke Musgrave ($8,000). Much like with the quarterbacks, we also like the other tight end in this game. Musgrave is coming off his best game of the season, hauling in six catches for 49 yards, and he gets a matchup against the second-worst defense against tight ends. According to FantasyPros, the Lions are giving up 14.8 fantasy points per game to the position, leaving Musgrave in a great spot to deliver. If Watson does return on Thursday, it could help the rookie, as Detroit's defense will have to focus their attention elsewhere.

Best SuperDraft NFL DFS Picks for Lions-Packers

This year, we're also listing our favorite weekly DFS plays on SuperDraft.

For those unfamiliar, SuperDraft's DFS scoring involves point multipliers as opposed to traditional salary-capped or tiered contests. A winning lineup will likely feature a strong mix of stud fantasy contributors with 1x-1.6x boosts, as well as matchup-based sleepers with larger multipliers. Each player is assigned a scoring multiplier based on their value as determined by SuperDraft. Users can roster any player in their lineup with no restrictions.

MORE: Win BIG with SuperDraft! Get a free $10 deposit when you use promo code "TSN"!

Here are the most notable scoring rules for SuperDraft NFL contests: Half-point PPR, four-point passing TDs, two-point bonuses for 100 rushing yards, 100 receiving yards, and 300 passing yards.

MORE SUPERDRAFT DFS: How to play SuperDraft

Champion (+50% points): WR Amon-Ra St. Brown, Lions (Multiplier 1.5x)

Super FLEX: QB Jared Goff, Lions (Multiplier 1.1x)

Super FLEX: RB Jahmyr Gibbs, Lions (Multiplier 1.2x)

Super FLEX: QB Jordan Love, Packers (Multiplier 1.15x)

Super FLEX: RB Aaron Jones, Packers (Multiplier 1.1x)

Last week was all about defense. This week is all about offense. The Lions feature a potent offense that's three-headed monster of Goff, St. Brown, and Gibbs should be able to produce. On the Green Bay side of things, Love will hopefully have his top option back in the backfield and that duo cooked the Bears defense in the opener. If Jones is healthy and suits up, then he's a must-have in your roster after the clunkers that AJ Dillon has posted for the last two weeks. Otherwise, pivot to a pass-catcher.