As fantasy football owners gear up for the last week of the fantasy regular season (in most leagues), our Week 14 fantasy WR PPR rankings are loaded top to bottom with just two teams on bye. Rolling out a strong receiving corps in a potential must-win week is essential, and we're here to shore up your start 'em, sit 'em concerns.

The highlight of our rankings is the long-awaited return of Justin Jefferson, who is (finally) set to suit up for the first time since Week 5. It's easy to forget, but in Jefferson's four full games this year, he averaged just over eight receptions and 135.8 yards per game while scoring three total touchdowns. Few receivers can dominate as he can, so we're happy to welcome him back.

Of course, Jefferson's return only helps one owner in each league, so let's break down the rest of the WR rankings to help you finish your season with a win.

Which WRs are on bye in Week 14?

The final set of bye weeks sees only the Commanders and Cardinals idle, resulting in the losses of Terry McLaurin, Marquise Brown, Jahan Dotson, Curtis Samuel, Rondale Moore, and Greg Dortch.

WEEK 14 PPR RANKINGS:

QBs | RBs | TEs | D/STs | Kickers

Even worse, Washington and Arizona sit as two of the weakest pass defenses in the league, so fantasy owners won't be able to count on big stats from their receivers going against the Commanders and Cardinals.

WEEK 14 STANDARD RANKINGS:

QBs | RBs | WRs | TEs | D/STs | Kickers

Who are the best fantasy WRs in Week 14?

The league's leading receiver, Tyreek Hill (vs. Titans in Week 14), stands as the unquestioned WR1 for Week 14 after torching the Commanders to the tune of five catches, 157 yards, and two TDs. CeeDee Lamb (vs. Eagles) and the Cowboys look to avenge their road loss to the Eagles in Week 9, as Dallas' WR1 routinely has double-digit reception potential.

Amon-Ra St. Brown (@ Bears) was relatively quiet this past week, but he's likely to rebound against a Bears defense that he totaled nine catches for 95 yards against in Week 11. A.J. Brown (@ Cowboys) reached the century mark for the first time in four games in Week 13, and another high-usage day looks to be in store for a potential shootout.

Keenan Allen (vs. Broncos) caught just five-of-nine targets last week, but as L.A.'s only reliable receiving option, a get-right game feels likely this week. Justin Jefferson (@ Raiders) is set to suit up for the first time since Week 5, and as we alluded to earlier, he's a must-start whenever he's active.

Stefon Diggs (@ Chiefs) hasn't totaled 100-plus receiving yards in any of his past six games, but he has every chance to get back on track against a Chiefs coverage unit that showed some leaks in Sunday's loss to the Packers.

WEEK 14 FANTASY ADVICE:

Sleepers | Busts | Projections | Start-sit

Who are the best fantasy WR sleepers, waiver pickups in Week 14?

Elijah Moore (vs. Jaguars), Noah Brown (@ Jets), Odell Beckham Jr. (vs. Rams), Jonathan Mingo (@ Saints), and Xavier Gipson (vs. Texans) are our preferred waiver-wire pickups in PPR formats for Week 14.

Moore (vs. Jaguars) just saw 12 targets from Joe Flacco and is in line for another high-usage day with Amari Cooper (concussion) potentially sidelined. Brown (@ Jets) should also see a steady target share after Tank Dell's (leg) season-ending injury.

Beckham Jr. (vs. Rams) is also likely to see increased usage with Mark Andrews (leg, ankle) done for the regular season. Mingo (@ Saints) has seen six-plus targets in his past four games, as his rapport with Bryce Young is strengthening by the week. Gipson led the Jets in receiving this past week (five receptions, 77 yards), and with New York routinely playing from behind, similar stat lines could be in the works.

WEEK 14 DFS:

DK lineup | FD lineup | Best values | Best stacks

Who are the biggest potential WR busts in Week 14?

It's tough to trust Calvin Ridley (@ Browns), Drake London (vs. Buccaneers), Jordan Addison (@ Raiders), and Jayden Reed (@ Giants) this week. Although Ridley has produced of late, a brutal matchup against a Browns coverage unit that entered Week 13 allowing the second-fewest fantasy points per game (FPPG) to WRs raises a red flag, and it's only compounded by the loss of Trevor Lawrence (ankle). London's week-to-week output is way too unpredictable, and with the fantasy season on the line for some of you, there's no reason to roll London out.

Addison is likely to take a step back with Jefferson back in the fold, while the Packers' receiving situation is too dispersed to put faith into Reed in PPR formats, though he might get a boost with Christian Watson (hamstring) banged up.

What are the biggest WR injuries in Week 14?

In Week 13, Demario Douglas (concussion) and Rashid Shaheed (thigh) missed game action, and Tank Dell (leg), Amari Cooper (concussion), Christian Watson (hamstring), and Marquise Brown (heel) exited early from their respective games.

UPDATE: Christian Kirk suffered a groin injury on Monday night, and he figures to be more doubtful than questionable for this week's game against Cleveland. If he's out, Zay Jones and Tim Jones will see more targets, but with Trevor Lawrence (ankle) also hurt, it's tough to count on either.

UPDATE: Douglas (concussion) has been ruled OUT for Week 14.

As usual, we'll update these WR PPR rankings throughout the week, so check back for the latest player movement and analysis.

Fantasy WR PPR Rankings Week 14: Who to start, sit at wide receiver

Rankings based on full-point PPR scoring formats

Rank Player

1 Tyreek Hill, Dolphins vs. Titans

2 CeeDee Lamb, Cowboys vs. Eagles

3 Amon-Ra St. Brown, Lions @ Bears

4 A.J. Brown, Eagles @ Cowboys

5 Keenan Allen, Chargers vs. Broncos

6 Justin Jefferson, Vikings @ Raiders

7 Stefon Diggs, Bills @ Chiefs

8 Mike Evans, Buccaneers @ Falcons

9 Michael Pittman Jr., Colts @ Bengals

10 Davante Adams, Raiders vs. Vikings

11 Brandon Aiyuk, 49ers vs. Seahawks

12 Nico Collins, Texans @ Jets

13 Ja'Marr Chase, Bengals vs. Colts

14 Cooper Kupp, Rams @ Ravens

15 Chris Olave, Saints vs. Panthers

16 DK Metcalf, Seahawks @ 49ers

17 Garrett Wilson, Jets vs. Texans

18 DeVonta Smith, Eagles @ Cowboys

19 DJ Moore, Bears vs. Lions

20 Puka Nacua, Rams @ Ravens

21 Deebo Samuel, 49ers vs. Seahawks

22 Jaylen Waddle, Dolphins vs. Titans

23 DeAndre Hopkins, Titans @ Dolphins

24 Amari Cooper, Browns vs. Jaguars

25 Calvin Ridley, Jaguars @ Browns

26 Zay Flowers, Ravens vs. Rams

27 Noah Brown, Texans @ Jets

28 Courtland Sutton, Broncos @ Chargers

29 Romeo Doubs, Packers @ Giants

30 Jakobi Meyers, Raiders vs. Vikings

31 Chris Godwin, Buccaneers @ Falcons

32 Rashee Rice, Chiefs vs. Bills

33 Tee Higgins, Bengals vs. Colts

34 Jerry Jeudy, Broncos @ Chargers

35 Brandin Cooks, Cowboys vs. Eagles

36 Diontae Johnson, Steelers vs. Patriots

37 Elijah Moore, Browns vs. Jaguars

38 Adam Thielen, Panthers @ Saints

39 Tyler Lockett, Seahawks @ 49ers

40 Josh Downs, Colts @ Bengals

41 George Pickens, Steelers vs. Patriots

42 Jaxon Smith-Njigba, Seahawks @ 49ers

43 Drake London, Falcons vs. Buccaneers

44 Zay Jones, Jaguars @ Browns

45 Jordan Addison, Vikings @ Raiders

46 Jayden Reed, Packers @ Giants

47 Robert Woods, Texans @ Jets

48 Gabe Davis, Bills @ Chiefs

49 Tyler Boyd, Bengals vs. Colts

50 Odell Beckham Jr., Ravens vs. Rams

51 Jonathan Mingo, Panthers @ Saints

52 Jameson Williams, Lions @ Bears

53 Xavier Gipson, Jets vs. Texans

54 Jalen Guyton, Chargers vs. Broncos

55 Darius Slayton, Giants vs. Packers

56 Quentin Johnston, Chargers vs. Broncos

57 Trey Palmer, Buccaneers @ Falcons

58 K.J. Osborn, Vikings @ Raiders

59 JuJu Smith-Schuster, Patriots @ Steelers

60 DJ Chark, Panthers @ Saints

61 Wan'Dale Robinson, Giants vs. Packers

62 Khalil Shakir, Bills @ Chiefs

63 Alec Pierce, Colts @ Bengals

64 Justin Watson, Chiefs vs. Bills

65 Tutu Atwell, Rams @ Ravens

66 Treylon Burks, Titans @ Dolphins

67 Josh Reynolds, Lions @ Bears

68 Nick Westbrook-Ikhine, Titans @ Dolphins

69 Cedric Tillman, Browns vs. Jaguars

70 Marquez Valdes-Scantling, Chiefs vs. Bills

71 Dontayvion Wicks, Packers @ Giants

72 Hunter Renfrow, Raiders vs. Vikings

73 Darnell Mooney, Bears vs. Lions

74 Skyy Moore, Chiefs vs. Bills

75 Kalif Raymond, Lions @ Bears

76 A.T. Perry, Saints vs. Panthers

77 Cedrick Wilson, Dolphins vs. Titans

78 Trenton Irwin, Bengals vs. Colts

79 Michael Gallup, Cowboys vs. Eagles

80 Brandon Powell, Vikings @ Raiders

81 Chris Moore, Titans @ Dolphins

82 Rashod Bateman, Ravens vs. Rams