When it comes to headphones and true wireless earbuds, there are a ton of brands and products to choose from. However, the sheer range of available models can also make them difficult to shop for, especially since many of them cater to different lifestyles, budgets, and priorities. Some are better suited for long-haul flights and vigorous workouts, for instance, while others let you tune out noise so you can focus better.

That’s why we’ve curated a list of the best headphone and earbud deals available. Here, you’ll find sales on all kinds of earbuds and over-ear headphones, all of which come with their own strengths and weaknesses. And if you want to do even more research before making a buying decision, we’ve put together guides to the best wireless earbuds and best noise-canceling headphones, which can help you determine which pair is right for you.

Best Apple deals

AirPods Pro (second-gen) deals

If you own an iPhone or multiple Apple products, the second-gen AirPods Pro are probably your best bet when it comes to wireless earbuds. In comparison to the base AirPods, the Pros offer better sound quality and feature active noise cancellation, not to mention seamless integration with iOS and a MagSafe-compatible charging case.

In 2022, Apple launched a new pair of AirPods Pro with improved sound quality and better noise cancellation. They also include onboard volume controls and a new MagSafe charging case, one that can beep if you ever misplace it thanks to its deeper Find My integration. The earbuds even come with an extra swappable tip for smaller ears.

One year later, Apple released the updated AirPods Pro with a USB-C charging case. Along with USB-C support, the buds also offer an even more robust IP54 rating for water and sweat resistance. Plus, when paired with Apple’s Vision Pro headset, they support lossless audio.

During Black Friday, we saw steep discounts on both versions of the latest AirPods Pro, with retailers taking up to $60 off. However, these deals have since disappeared, and you can only buy the AirPods Pro without USB-C for $189.99 in-store from the Micro Center. The second best discount is available at B&H Photo, where anybody can order the 2022 buds without USB-C for $229 ($20 off). The buds with USB-C support, meanwhile, are only $3 off at $237 from Amazon, Walmart, and B&H Photo— though Best Buy’s Plus and Total members can save $12.50.

AirPods (second-gen) deals

Alternatively, you can buy a pair of the second-gen AirPods with a wired charging case. Their sound quality isn’t quite up to par with newer models, however, they remain the cheapest Apple earbuds on the market and continue to pair seamlessly with a range of Apple products thanks to their built-in H1 chip. The entry-level AirPods normally retail for $129, but you can currently get them for $99 at Amazon and Walmart.

The second-gen AirPods are a lot harder to get ahold of with a MagSafe charging case, however, unless you’re shopping for a used or refurbished pair of earbuds. Luckily, though, you can still buy them in new condition at Adorama for $119.99 ($30 off).

AirPods (third-gen) deals

Last on Apple’s wireless earbuds block are the third-gen AirPods, which represent the latest iteration of the base model. They blend a bit of the AirPods Pro look with the hard plastic build of the second-gen model; they also offer IPX4 water resistance and improved sound quality over the latter, even if they are still lacking in the low end.

Right now, you can buy the third-gen AirPods with either a MagSafe charging case or a Lightning-only charging case. The option with the wired charging case is on sale at Amazon for $164 ($5 off). You can also pick up the wireless earbuds with a MagSafe charging case from Staples and Costco (if you’re a member) for $169.95, which is just $6 more and a better deal overall.

AirPods Max deals

If you’re looking for some of the best sound quality you can get in a pair of noise-canceling headphones, we recommend the AirPods Max. The headphones pair seamlessly with other Apple devices and sound superb, especially combined with Apple’s spatial audio feature, which allows for a more immersive experience when listening to or watching compatible content. Unfortunately, they don’t support lossless audio, but they do tout the best transparency mode of all the headphones on our list. They also boast incredible build quality thanks to a luxe design that opts for aluminum, steel, and fabric over plastic.

With an MSRP of $549, the AirPods Max are expensive, but they’re often on sale for far less. Right now, for instance, the headphones are down to $479.99 ($70 off) at Amazon, albeit in select colors, as well as Best Buy.

Best Beats deals

Beats Studio Pro

After six years, Apple-owned Beats replaced the Beats Studio 3 with the Beats Studio Pro earlier this year. The over-ears offer much better sound quality thanks to new features like support for lossless audio over USB-C. They also cancel noise out much better, while you can take advantage of iOS and Android features like Fast Pair and Google’s Find My Device platform. The Beats Studio Pro normally go for $349.99, but right now they are on sale for $271.15 in blue at Amazon, while you can get them in other colors for $299.99 from Best Buy and Verizon.

Beats Fit Pro deals

The Beats Fit Pro are the latest fitness earbuds from Apple and offer a sportier design and better sound than the first-gen AirPods Pro. The wing tips help to keep them in place when you’re active, while also ensuring they remain comfortable over long listening sessions. Their functionality with Android phones is slightly limited, but if you use an iPhone, you get all the conveniences of Apple’s H1 chip and deeper OS integration and connectivity. Their only real downside is that the included charging case is overly large and lacks wireless charging (which is more forgivable at lower price points).

Best Sony deals

Sony WH-1000XM5

They aren’t a huge departure from the previous model, but the Sony WH-1000XM5 are still our favorite pair of noise-canceling headphones. The XM5s improve on all of the features that made the XM4s so awesome by providing better active noise cancellation, improving the voice call quality, and boosting the overall sound of the already excellent headphones. While the lack of new features is a bit disappointing, the Sony XM5s remain one of our top recommendations for anyone looking for a premium pair of noise-canceling headphones.

Right now you can buy the headphones for around $328 ($70 off) from B&H Photo, Best Buy, and Target.

Sony WH-1000XM4 deals

The WH-1000XM5’s predecessor, Sony’s WH-1000XM4, are still a terrific pair of headphones even if they’re older. They offer excellent noise cancellation, good sound, and the ability to pair to two devices simultaneously. You can wear them for long periods as well, as their plush ear pads make them comfortable to wear for as long as you need. Frequent travelers will appreciate their ability to fold up much more compactly than Sony’s newer model. They even last up to 30 hours on a single charge and charge via USB-C.

Sony LinkBuds deals

The Sony LinkBuds are a clear departure from conventional earbuds, one that uses an “open-style” donut-shaped design instead of the more typical silicone ear tips. This allows for better spatial awareness and, for some, a more comfortable fit. The LinkBuds also provide crisp sound quality and excellent voice call performance. (Though, as a result of their design, they aren’t very practical in louder environments.) Possibly the coolest feature, though, are the controls, which allow you to tap the side of your head to control them instead of the earbud itself. They’re certainly very Sony.

Normally $179.99, you can currently get a pair of the LinkBuds for around $138 from Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy, and direct from Sony.

Sony LinkBuds S deals

One more intriguing pair of earbuds from Sony are the LinkBuds S, which don’t look as peculiar as the regular LinkBuds but are some of the comfiest earbuds around. A big part of this is due to their lightweight build, which amounts to just 4.8 grams per bud. They also offer active noise cancellation and support for Sony’s LDAC Bluetooth codec, which allows for higher-quality audio streaming. Normally $199.99, the LinkBuds S are on sale for around $148 at Amazon and Target.

Sony WH-CH720N deals

If you’re looking for noise-canceling headphones for under $150, Sony’s WH-CH720N might be worth a look. The budget-friendly headphones come with adjustable noise cancellation and are exceptionally light, which allows for a more comfortable fit. They also feature Bluetooth support and offer up to 35 hours of continuous playback on a single charge, though they lack support for Sony’s higher-quality LDAC codec.

The headphones typically retail for $149, but right now, you can buy them in various colors for around $98 from Amazon, B&H Photo, and Best Buy.

Sony WH-CH720N $ 98 $ 150 35 % off $ 98 $ 98 $ 150 35 % off Sony’s wireless headphones offer noise cancellation and up to 35 hours of battery life on a single charge. They also come in blue, white, and black. $98 at Amazon$100 at Best Buy

Sony WF-C700N deals

The WF-C700N are another pair of noise-canceling earbuds from Sony and are currently available for $89.99 from Amazon and Best Buy. They’re an exceptionally comfortable pair of earbuds with decent sound quality and support for an array of useful software features, including Fast Pair support on Android as well as location-based sound settings. Admittedly, their noise cancellation doesn’t truly drown out the world, but it does eliminate some sound. Voice call quality isn’t particularly impressive, either, but if you just need an affordable pair of earbuds to help you tune out some noise, the WF-C700N should do just fine.

Best Bose deals

Bose QuietComfort Headphones and Bose QuietComfort 45 deals

Earlier this fall, Bose rehauled its lineup and replaced the Bose QuietComfort 45 with Bose’s QuietComfort Headphones. With the new headphones, you can now adjust noise cancellation levels and set custom modes. The over-ears also now come in green.

We haven’t tested Bose’s QuietComfort Headphones, but our headphone reviewer Chris Welch says they’re otherwise extremely similar to the QuietComfort 45. They’re foldable, so you can easily carry them around with you, and exceptionally comfortable. Battery life sits at 24 hours as well, meaning you needn’t worry about constantly having to charge them. The transparency mode comes in handy when you need to be more aware of your surroundings, like when you’re about to cross the street.

Right now, you can buy the newer Bose QuietComfort Headphones for $249 ($100 off) from Amazon, Best Buy, and Bose. Alternatively, you can pick up the Bose QuietComfort 45 for $229 ($100 off) from Amazon, Best Buy and Target.

Bose QuietComfort Ultra Headphones and Bose Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 deals

Unlike Bose’s entry-level QuietComfort Headphones, the new Bose QuietComfort Ultra Headphones offer higher-quality Bluetooth codecs and an immersive audio mode — which is essentially Bose’s version of spatial audio. They also improve upon the Bose Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 with a foldable design, better call quality, and more effective noise cancellation. Along with new physical controls, like a volume slider, the over-ears sport a new spatial audio listening mode, Plus, they boast improved call quality, which is saying something given Bose’s Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 were already exemplary in this respect.

Right now, you can buy the Bose QuietComfort Ultra Headphones for $379 ($50 off) from Amazon, Best Buy, and Bose. You can alternatively buy Bose’s Noise Cancelling Headphones 700 for $279 ($100 off) from Best Buy and Bose.

Bose QuietComfort Ultra Earbuds and Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II deals

Bose also recently replaced the excellent Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II with the Bose QuietComfort Ultra wireless earbuds. When it comes to noise cancellation, the Bose QuietComfort Ultra outperform all other earbuds on the market. While the buds are very similar in design, fit, and sound to their predecessor, they now support immersive audio, better voice call quality, and new silicone stabilizer wings that are easier to apply. Sadly, however, they continue to lack multipoint support and don't come with a built-in wireless charging case.

We recently saw the Bose QuietComfort Ultra drop down to $249, but right now you can only buy the Bose QuietComfort Ultra for $279 ($20 off) from Amazon, Best Buy, and Bose. Alternatively, you can buy the Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II for $199 ($80 off) at Amazon, Best Buy, and direct from Bose.

Read our reviews of the Bose QuietComfort Ultra and Bose QuietComfort Earbuds II.

Best Google deals

Google Pixel Buds Pro deals

The Google Pixel Buds Pro are another good pair of noise-canceling earbuds, particularly for Pixel phone owners. The wireless earbuds offer terrific sound quality and battery life, along with useful features like multipoint Bluetooth connectivity. If you own a Pixel phone, you’ll also get access to exclusive features like head-tracking spatial audio and easy access to their settings menu.

Right now, they’re on sale for around $119.99 ($80 off) at Amazon, Walmart, and Best Buy.

Google Pixel Buds A-Series deals

Google also sells a cheaper pair of earbuds, the Google Pixel Buds A-Series. They offer good sound and voice call quality, along with perks like Google Assistant and an IPX4 rating for sweat and water resistance. Just bear in mind there are some tradeoffs when opting for a cheaper set of earbuds, as the A-Series lack noise cancellation, wireless charging, and are more prone to the occasional connection hiccup.

At the moment, you can pick them up on sale for $83.34 ($17 off) at Amazon, a far cry from their all-time low of $58.98.

Google Pixel Buds A-Series $ 83 $ 100 17 % off $ 83 $ 83 $ 100 17 % off The Pixel Buds A-Series deliver good comfort, impressive audio quality, and hands-free Google Assistant voice controls for under $100. $83 at Amazon

Best Samsung deals

Samsung Galaxy Buds 2 Pro deals

Samsung has a few different wireless earbuds to choose from. Its most high-end pair, the Galaxy Buds 2 Pro, launched last year. They’re a good option if you’re an Android user or Samsung devotee who wants a pair of premium earbuds, with top-notch sound quality that’s even better than their predecessor. Samsung Galaxy phone owners can also take advantage of higher bit rate audio, while everybody can enjoy good active noise cancellation and a relatively robust IPX7 sweat and water resistance.

You can currently buy the Samsung Galaxy Buds 2 Pro on sale for $169.99 ($60 off) at Amazon, B&H Photo, and Best Buy.

Samsung Galaxy Buds 2 deals

Samsung’s Galaxy Buds 2 are a good-sounding pair of earbuds with active noise cancellation, wireless charging, and a subtle design. Right now, the best price around is at Best Buy, where you can grab a pair for $89.99 ($60 off). You can also buy them for about $10 more from Amazon. Walmart, and Verizon. That’s not a bad price for Samsung’s entry-level buds, which hit above their weight class with noise cancellation and good audio quality.

Verge Deals on X (formerly known as Twitter) / Join over 51,000 followers and keep up with the best daily tech deals with @vergedeals Follow us!

Best Jabra deals

Jabra Elite 10 deals

Jabra’s Elite 10 are the company’s most premium pair of wireless earbuds. They feature a new semi-open design that should be more comfortable, along with Dolby Spatial Audio with head tracking. We’re still in the process of testing these earbuds, but Jabra says they also offer its most powerful active noise cancellation yet. Their new drivers, meanwhile, should also provide more detailed and richer sound. At the same time, they continue to retain perks like wireless charging, multipoint Bluetooth support, and are IP57-rated for water resistance.

Regularly $249.99, you can currently buy the Jabra Elite 10 for $199.99 from Amazon, Best Buy, and Jabra.

Jabra Elite 8 Active deals

Jabra’s Elite 8 Active are a pair of fitness-focused earbuds and the successor to the excellent Elite 7 Active. They’re a terrific pair of earbuds if you like to go for runs, with more robust IP68 rating water resistance than their predecessor and adaptive ANC. Plus, unlike similar offerings from Beats and Anker, the Elite 8 Active offer a secure fit without the need for added hooks or fins. At the same time, they retain the essentials, like support for multipoint and wireless charging.

Normally $199.99, they’re currently on sale for $149.99 from Amazon, Best Buy, and Jabra.

Jabra Elite 4 Active deals

If you prefer a more affordable pair of earbuds that are geared toward working out, there’s also Jabra’s Elite 4 Active. They come with IP57 water resistance and active noise cancellation (though you can’t adjust it) but lack wireless charging. However, if you’re fine without the extra bells and whistles, you can buy them for $69.99 ($50 off) at Amazon and Walmart.

Best Sennheiser deals

Sennheiser Momentum Wireless 4 deals

If you’re looking for a pair of noise-canceling headphones with superb battery life, Sennheiser’s Momentum Wireless 4 are your best option. These headphones are capable of lasting up to 60 hours on a single charge. They also sound terrific, offer multipoint Bluetooth connectivity, and match the Sony WH-1000XM5 — our favorite noise-canceling headphones — in terms of comfort. They may not boast physical controls or the stylish, retro-inspired design their predecessor had, but they do offer improved noise cancellation (even if it isn’t quite on par with that of Sony or Bose’s offerings).

The Momentum Wireless 4 typically sell for $379.95, but right now you can buy them for $269.89 at Amazon and for $30 more at Best Buy.

Best UE deals

UE Fits deals

After testing a pair for ourselves, we remarked in our review that the UE Fits were the most comfortable consumer earbuds on the market. That’s because, unlike the other wireless earbuds on this list, the UE Fits are uniquely capable of permanently molding to the shape of your ears in just 60 seconds, making them a great choice for those concerned their earbuds may come loose or fall out. We also found that they offer good sound quality, as well as lengthy, eight-hour battery life. Normally $199, you can get them right now for $149.99 direct from Ultimate Ears.

UE Fits $ 150 $ 199 25 % off $ 150 $ 150 $ 199 25 % off The UE Fits come with ear tips that permanently mold to the unique shape of your ears in just 60 seconds. This allows for a much better fit that you can comfortably wear for hours. $150 at Ultimate Ears

Best Anker deals

Anker Soundcore Liberty 3 Pro deals

Anker’s Soundcore Liberty 3 Pro are another solid pair of noise-canceling earbuds that are relatively affordable. In addition to active noise cancellation and long battery life, the earbuds boast powerful sound with support for the higher-quality LDAC codec. They also come with multipoint Bluetooth support, IPX4 water resistance, and a wide selection of ear and wing tips.

Regularly $169.99, they’re on sale right now for $99.99 at Amazon and $10 more from Walmart.

Best Nothing deals

Nothing Ear Stick deals

If you like the new Beats Studio Buds Plus because of their transparent look, Nothing’s Ear Stick earbuds are a cheaper option that’s currently available for $59 ($40 off) from Nothing. They’re not quite as capable as the Beats and lack premium features like active noise cancellation, but they’re certainly stylish thanks to their see-through design and tube-like charging case. The open-style earbuds also deliver good sound, along with improved battery life and better voice call quality than their predecessor.

Nothing Ear Stick $ 59 $ 99 40 % off $ 59 $ 59 $ 99 40 % off Nothing’s delightful pair of earbuds are both balanced and fun, with an open-style design that helps ensure you can always hear the world around you. $59 at Nothing

Best Amazon Echo deals

Amazon Echo Buds (second-gen and third-gen) deals

The 2021 edition of the Amazon Echo Buds are a great value. Amazon’s second-generation true wireless earbuds offer improved comfort and better noise cancellation than their predecessor, along with a terrific passthrough mode that ensures you can always hear what’s going on around you. The $119.99 earbuds also feature hands-free Alexa support and sound that’s remarkably satisfying, with more bass than the AirPods Pro and an appropriate amount of restraint when it comes to the high end.

Earlier this year, Amazon also introduced the third-generation Echo Buds which are significantly cheaper at just $44.99. They lack noise cancellation but feature a lightweight, open-ear design that should feel more comfortable.

The second-gen Amazon Echo Buds are on sale at Amazon and Best Buy with the wired charging case for $64.99 ($54 off). The same Echo Buds with a wireless charging case is $85.99 (also $55 off) at Amazon. Meanwhile, you can purchase the third-generation Echo Buds for $34.99 ($15 off) from Amazon, which matches their all-time low price.

Amazon Echo Buds (third-generation, 2023) $ 35 $ 50 30 % off $ 35 $ 35 $ 50 30 % off Amazon’s newest Echo Buds lack ANC but feature a semi-open design that should make it easier to remain aware of your surroundings. They also integrate with Alexa and support multipoint pairing. $35 at Amazon