Week 10 in the NFL had some of the league's best teams not playing. But that didn't stop the excitement, with five teams winning on walk-off field goals and more games coming right down to the wire.

With that, there were some surprising results and expected domination. Some favorites dug deep to win. Some underdogs turned in shocking upsets.

Putting the latest wins and losses into a blender, here's Sporting News' updated look at how all teams stack up against each other, 1-32 going into Week 11:

NFL WEEK 11 PICKS: Straight up | Against the spread

NFL power rankings Week 11

1. Philadelphia Eagles 8-1 (previous week: 1)

The Eagles enjoyed a bye trying to get a little healthier for the more difficult stretch run in a top-heavy NFC as they have tough games at the Chiefs (the Super Bowl 57 rematch), vs. the Bills, vs. 49ers and at the Cowboys in the next four. They still look like the conference team to beat as they have proved they still win in many ways around Jalen Hurts.

2. Kansas City Chiefs 7-2 (3)

The Chiefs had a pretty good week off given they jumped back into the AFC's top seed and home-field advantage spot with the Ravens losing. They already are rolling defensively and expect them to figure out a lot more around Patrick Mahomes after the key Andy Reid bye.

3. Detroit Lions 7-2 (5)

The Lions are becoming like the Eagles, and that's what makes them the second-best team in the NFC. They can win shootouts with Jared Goff, Amon-Ra St. Brown and their passing game. They also can dominate with the running game. They can win with offense or defense. Dan Campbell is coach of the year.

4. San Francisco 49ers 6-3 (8)

The 49ers had a surprise offensive get-well game in Jacksonville with Brock Purdy leading the way and all his key supporting weapons doing damage, even without Christian McCaffrey scoring. The biggest development was the defense going back to dominating a good offense.

5. Baltimore Ravens 7-3 (2)

The Ravens' offense is just fine with the running and passing of Lamar Jackson, but he still can't afford to make big mistakes, which he did vs. the Browns. The defense needs to pick up the pieces, too, stat, ahead of facing the Bengals on a short week.

6. Miami Dolphins 6-3 (6)

The Dolphins got a much-needed bye to figure out how to beat the better teams in the league. Their defense should be getting a little better to support their often explosive offense. They should feel good about a Week 11 rebound vs. the Raiders.

7. Pittsburgh Steelers 6-3 (9)

The Steelers are playing the way Mike Tomlin wants, with the running game rolling to big totals with Jaylen Warren and Najee Harris and the defense doing what it needs, more so vs. pass than run, in key moments. You can't argue with the overachieving results.

8. Cleveland Browns 6-3 (10)

The Browns proved they can win games with defense in another way, with big plays. They also have more offensive pop when Deshaun Watson plays well and the running game doesn't slump. Their playoff hopes look much better after their stunning comeback vs. the Ravens.

9. Jacksonville Jaguars 6-3 (4)

The Jaguars got an NFC wake-up call against the 49ers, who were much more prepared after a Week 9 bye than they were. Jacksonville needs to forget that debacle and get back on track, stat. The team gets a division double vs. Tennessee and Houston before facing Cincinnati.

10. Dallas Cowboys 6-3 (11)

The Cowboys took advantage of their "no contest" vs. the Giants at home with Dak Prescott continuing to ball as a passer and runner. They need to keep the defense and running game success, too, in bigger games going forward.

MORE: Inside the Cowboys historic offensive explosion vs. Giants

11. Seattle Seahawks 6-3 (13)

The Seahawks needed every ounce of their offense around Geno Smith to rally to beat the Commanders, but the get-well performance worked well for him, Kenneth Walker and the wide receivers. The defense could be more consistent.

12. Minnesota Vikings 6-4 (14)

The new man on the Vikings, Josh Dobbs, keeps producing the same results they were enjoying offensively with Kirk Cousins, thanks to more help from the running game for Kevin O'Connell and the defense overall under Brian Flores. Their 0-3 and 1-4 starts are distant memories as the Vikings look for a sixth straight win in Week 11 vs. Denver.

13. Houston Texans 5-4 (16)

The Texans are looking great with C.J. Stroud leading their offense and now they've found some running game, too. The defense is just making enough plays to put them in position to win high-scoring games. Houston is a legitimate playoff contender under rookie coach DeMeco Ryans.

14. Cincinnati Bengals 5-4 (7)

The Bengals are battling some key injuries, leaving them much less room for error. Unfortunately, Joe Burrow made key mistakes and the defense wilted against run and pass at home in the loss to the Texans.

15. Buffalo Bills 5-5 (12)

The Bills fell right into the trap game against the Broncos at home, losing because of more mistakes from Josh Allen. The defense can't tolerate those mistakes with all of its injuries.

16. Las Vegas Raiders 5-5 (22)

The Raiders are hot, having won two consecutive games for interim coach Antonio Pierce, bringing up flashbacks to the playoff push they made with Rich Bisaccia in 2021. They are right back in the AFC wild-card race with the Dolphins, Chiefs, Vikings ahead.

17. New Orleans Saints 5-5 (15)

The Saints will go into a bye not knowing what do at quarterback. with Derek Carr further hurting his right shoulder and needed to be checked for a concussion. Jameis Winston did provide a spark, too little too late at Minnesota. But the division lead is precarious with poor QB play overall.

19. Indianapolis Colts 5-5 (19)

The Colts stopped scoring at least 20 points in every game during their ugly, run-heavy victory in Germany vs. the Patriots. At least Jonathan Taylor is doing his normal things and the defense is playing well again while Gardner Minshew looks meh.

18. Los Angeles Chargers 4-5 (17)

The Chargers got well offensively with Justin Herbert, Keenan Allen and Austin Ekeler against the Lions. But the defense went back to crumbling vs. big pass plays and added wilting against the run. The pressure is right back on Brandon Staley with a trip to Green Bay next.

20. Tampa Bay Buccaneers 4-5 (23)

Baker Mayfield and the offense is back on track to move the ball well after a brief midseason slump. They're still not lighting it up, but the Bucs are back to playing smart complementary football with their defense rebounding and still might have found a long-term QB answer.

21. New York Jets 4-5 (18)

Aaron Rodgers can't come back soon enough, and going for a December miracle might be too late after two straight key losses to the Chargers and Raiders. Zach Wilson will always cap the potential of a talented offense that keeps making mistakes. The Bills and Dolphins in back-to-back division games next might be their season.

22. Denver Broncos 4-5 (24)

The Broncos got another big win against a AFC power, sandwiching their Week 9 bye with upsets over the Chiefs and Bills. The offense has hit a balanced grooved with Russell Wilson and the defense is making a lot more plays, too.

23. Washington Commanders 4-5 (21)

The Commanders should be pleased about Sam Howell and the offense showing more fight with additional weapons and the running backs look better all-around again. But the reeling defense and pass protection continue to be un-winnable assets.

24. Atlanta Falcons 4-5 (20)

The Falcons were forced into another QB change because of injury. They found a few more answers offensively but that position still made it an overall mess. The defense also doesn't seem to be well prepared to different styles of offenses.

25. Green Bay Packers 3-6 (25)

The Packers saw some improved work from Jordan Love and his young weapons as they spread the ball well in the passing game, but the run defense woes and key holes in coverage have all but doomed their playoff hopes.

26. Los Angeles Rams 3-6 (26)

The Rams are hoping to find a few more answers during a bye, as Sean McVay has seen his good coaching job earlier in the season go by the wayside with key offensive injuries. They need Matthew Stafford to help save face the rest of the way or the season will look a lot like 2022.

27. Tennessee Titans 3-6 (27)

Will Levis is going through rookie lumps after his dazzling debut as the brutal offensive line woes exacerbated by injuries are getting to him and the entire Titans offense. The Titans still need to keep starting him, because they can't overcome those systemic problems or those in overall pass defense.

28. Chicago Bears 3-7 (29)

The Bears don't care how they win, but they should be pleased their running game and defense bailed out their limited passing game with Tyson Bagent to secure another win in Week 10. They will hope to finish strong with Justin Fields soon.

29. Arizona Cardinals 2-8 (32)

The Cardinals got an immediate spark for their offense with Kyler Murray and James Conner back. They also seemed invigorated for Jonathan Gannon on defense and special teams. Look for the Cardinals to finish strong and play a whole lot of spoiler.

30. New England Patriots 2-8 (28)

The Patriots tried to win a game by hiding Mac Jones and their quarterbacks in general. They almost pulled it off with the running game dominating and short-handed defense making a lot of plays, but they didn't see the results in Germany ahead of a tough bye for Bill Belichick.

31. New York Giants 2-8 (30)

The Giants can just flush away this season without Daniel Jones and Tyrod Taylor. The injuries go to their offense early and remained relentless, and now their defense is falling apart, too. The question is, will Brian Daboll get a massive mulligan after his rookie playoff leadership?

32. Carolina Panthers 1-8 (31)

The Panthers found better defense and special teams to keep them in the game in Chicago, but Bryce Young still can't unlock a limited passing game and the offensive line and running game hasn't help nearly enough.