It's make-or-break time in fantasy land. Only one week stands between now and the fantasy football playoffs, so every decision we make could be the difference between an optimal finish and a womp-womp ending. Our Week 14 fantasy RB rankings for standard leagues will help steer your fantasy ship to the smoothest possible sailing, guiding you to the running back studs, sleepers, busts, and injuries of note going into the most important week of the regular season.

The rollercoaster that the 2023 season has been rolled on through Week 13, with yet another fresh batch of injuries. Luckily for us, we have strong stomachs (and we're not above taking offers from potential sponsors, TUMS and Kaopectate!). So, like always, we will navigate through the injuries to provide you with the most up-to-date information and analysis.

Let's get to our Week 14 RB rankings and hopefully help you close out the regular season in style. Good luck, check back often, and enjoy the remainder of the first week of December!

Which RBs are on bye in Week 14?

After a six-team byepocalypse in Week 13, only the Cardinals and Commanders will be off this coming weekend. That takes lead backs Brian Robinson Jr. and James Conner off the table, plus Antonio Gibson for those in deep leagues.

WEEK 14 STANDARD RANKINGS:

QBs | WRs | TEs | D/STs | Kickers

One thing that stinks for fantasy is that both Washington and Arizona have been defensive turnstiles. Many of the stud running backs have tough matchups in Week 14, but it's only right that many of the elite backs must beat the best defenses to lift fantasy squads to the big dance.

WEEK 14 PPR RANKINGS:

QBs | RBs | WRs | TEs | D/STs | Kickers

Who are the best fantasy RBs in Week 14?

Christian McCaffrey (vs. Seahawks in Week 14) retains his spot at No. 1, especially considering he's playing at home against a Seattle team he just roughed up for 139 yards and two TDs on Thanksgiving. We're also sticking with Austin Ekeler (vs. Broncos) even though he has managed just 2.99 yards per carry since returning from injury just eight games ago. If Denver's abysmal run D doesn't cure what ails him, Ek's getting demoted for the fantasy playoffs.

Travis Etienne Jr. (@ Browns) draws a tough matchup on paper, but the Rams' Kyren Williams (@ Ravens) might beg to differ. Williams put 112 total yards and a TD on Cleveland in Week 13, and with Etienne's usage rate and the Jags hitting their stride offensively as of late, we're confident in the third-year back's ranking at No. 3.

We have two sets of teammates in our top 10 this week: Detroit's David Montgomery and Jahmyr Gibbs (@ Bears) and Miami's Raheem Mostert and De'Von Achane (vs. Titans). Both duos have such solid workloads in high-flying, run-first offenses — and such juicy matchups — that we can't imagine any of these studs finishing outside the elite eight. DMont and Gibbs combined for 193 yards and two TDs when they faced Chicago in Week 11. Tennessee just surrendered 31 points to Indy, so we know Miami will be dominating the time of possession and running early and often against Will Levis and company.

Jets fans will be hoping for some Breece Lightning from stud second-year back Breece Hall (vs. Texans), and we think they will be rewarded for their patience. Houston has surrendered 111.8 scrimmage yards per game to RBs this season, and DeMeco Ryans' unit has also allowed 14 total rushing TDs on the year. We like Hall's upside even more than we like stud dual-purpose backs Alvin Kamara (vs. Panthers) and Saquon Barkley (vs. Packers), but just barely. Kamara and Barkley both have strong matchups, with Carolina and Green Bay both sitting in the bottom 10 in the NFL in standard fantasy points allowed to RBs.

WEEK 14 FANTASY ADVICE:

Sleepers | Busts | Projections | Start-sit

Who are the best fantasy RB sleepers, waiver pickups in Week 14?

We'll talk more about Derrick Henry (concussion) in the injury section, but we can say with confidence here and now that Tyjae Spears (@ Dolphins) should be the hottest waiver-wire pickup of Week 14. Tennessee is a run-first offense and King Henry might be sidelined with a head injury, so Spears could very well pick up where he left off against Indy last weekend. The young back averaged 4.7 yards per carry (just shy of his 5.1 YPC entering the week) en route to 88 yards.

Another backup getting a boost this week is the Patriots' Ezekiel Elliott (@ Steelers), who will assume lead-back duties after Rhamondre Stevenson went down with a pretty bad ankle injury in Week 13. Zeke might put in a vintage performance considering James Conner just went back to Pittsburgh and hung 105 yards and two TDs on his old squad.

Could this be the weekend that Keaton Mitchell (vs. Rams) gets back into RB2 range for the Ravens? Los Angeles might find itself spying Lamar Jackson and Gus Edwards so often that the speedy rookie busts a couple of big runs. Mitchell has racked up 330 yards and two TDs since he broke out four games ago, but the majority of that damage (134 yards and a TD) came in the initial breakout against Seattle. He has still yet to see 12 touches in a game, something we can't imagine will be the case by the end of the regular season.

We also think Roschon Johnson (vs. Lions) could have a chance to take over lead-back duties in Chicago, as both Khalil Herbert and D'Onta Foreman have battled injuries and inconsistent touches this season. It's a tough matchup, so temper your expectations, but there's some high-floor flex appeal considering Alvin Kamara and Taysom Hill averaged 5.2 yards per touch and found the end zone three times via the ground against Detroit last week.

WEEK 14 DFS:

DK lineup | FD lineup | Best values | Best stacks

Who are the biggest potential RB busts in Week 14?

We're a tad worried about Buffalo second-year back James Cook (@ Chiefs), as Kansas City's front-seven tends to be stout against speedsters but below-average against power backs. You probably aren't in a position to bench Cook, but don't expect massive numbers from the guy who averaged just 2.7 yards per carry against the Eagles his last time out.

Zach Charbonnet (@ 49ers) faces a tough matchup and has a bruise on his knee, so we don't expect very fruitful results from the rookie if he starts in Santa Clara this weekend. We also don't love Jerome Ford or Kareem Hunt (vs. Jaguars), as Jacksonville entered Week 12 allowing just 12.3 standard fantasy points per game to RBs (third lowest in the NFL).

We say it almost every week, but the song remains the same: don't start Carolina backs Chuba Hubbard or Miles Sanders (@ Saints). It's even worse than usual this week, as New Orleans has a pretty hard-hitting front-seven and the Bayou is no place for below-average offenses.

What are the biggest RB injuries in Week 14?

Two-time rushing champ Derrick Henry (head) suffered a huge blow to the head and neck area in Tennessee's Week 13 loss to the Colts, so don't be surprised if the king gives up his throne to Tyjae Spears this week. He immediately left the game and proceeded to the locker room following the hit, and it was confirmed that he would not return with a head injury. It wouldn't make much sense for a four-win team to rush back its franchise player.

Patriots dual-purpose back Rhamondre Stevenson (ankle) suffered an injury on a nasty hip-drop tackle in New England's Week 13 loss to the Chargers. Bill Belichick and company already noted that 'Mondre would miss multiple weeks, so we're bumping Ezekiel Elliott way up against the Steelers.

D'Andre Swift took a hard hit and exited Philadelphia's game late against the 49ers, but it's tough to know if he's actually hurt or was just kept out because of the lopsided score. If Swift can't go in Week 14 against Dallas, Kenneth Gainwell and Boston Scott will split touches, with Gainwell likely garnering flex value.

Jonathan Taylor underwent thumb surgery last week and is expected to miss a few weeks. Tough for Taylor owners to ride the home stretch of the regular season without JT, but at least they could get him back for the end of the fantasy playoffs. The injury highlights the importance of handcuffs, as Zack Moss has put up multiple top-10 performances with and without Taylor this season.

Seattle's Kenneth Walker III (oblique) missed Week 12 and 13, and we're not confident in his ability to suit up against the hard-hitting 49ers coming off a big win in Philly. Backup Zach Charbonnet exited early because of a knee injury against the Cowboys, putting his status in doubt, too. If both are out, DeeJay Dallas would start and lead the backfield in touches.

Green Bay's Aaron Jones has a sprained MCL, and sources have revealed that the Packers continue to consider him week-to-week. He only logged four carries before sustaining the injury in Week 11, then he sat for the Packers' Thanksgiving Day tilt with the Lions and their Sunday Night Football win over Kansas City. Why rush him back if Green Bay is already winning games?

D'Onta Foreman (ankle) missed Chicago's game before the bye, and his status remains unclear heading into Week 14. If he's healthy, he'll likely start in Chicago's backfield, but it's anyone's guess how carries will be divvied up after Roschon Johnson surprisingly led the way in Week 12.

We'll be updating these standard RB rankings all week, so check back for the latest player movement.

Fantasy RB Rankings Week 14: Who to start, sit at running back

Rankings based on standard, non-PPR scoring

Rank Player

1 Christian McCaffrey, 49ers vs. Seahawks

2 Austin Ekeler, Chargers vs. Broncos

3 Travis Etienne, Jaguars @ Browns

4 David Montgomery, Lions @ Bears

5 Raheem Mostert, Dolphins vs. Titans

6 De'Von Achane, Dolphins vs. Titans

7 Breece Hall, Jets vs. Texans

8 Jahmyr Gibbs, Lions @ Bears

9 Alvin Kamara, Saints vs. Panthers

10 Saquon Barkley, Giants vs. Packers

11 Tony Pollard, Cowboys vs. Eagles

12 Bijan Robinson, Falcons vs. Buccaneers

13 Derrick Henry, Titans @ Dolphins

14 Kyren Williams, Rams @ Ravens

15 Josh Jacobs, Raiders vs. VIkings

16 Rachaad White, Buccaneers @ Falcons

17 Joe Mixon, Bengals vs. Colts

18 D'Andre Swift, Eagles @ Cowboys

19 Javonte Williams, Broncos @ Chargers

20 Kenneth Walker III, Seahawks @ 49ers

21 Jaylen Warren, Steelers vs. Patriots

22 Jerome Ford, Browns vs. Jaguars

23 Alexander Mattison, Vikings @ Raiders

24 Najee Harris, Steelers vs. Patriots

25 Ezekiel Elliott, Patriots @ Steelers

26 Gus Edwards, Ravens vs. Rams

27 James Cook, Bills @ Chiefs

28 Zack Moss, Colts @ Bengals

29 Keaton Mitchell, Ravens vs. Rams

30 AJ Dillon, Packers @ Giants

31 Dameon Pierce, Texans @ Jets

32 Aaron Jones, Packers @ Giants

33 Clyde Edwards-Helaire, Chiefs vs. BIlls

34 Jerick McKinnon, Chiefs vs. Bills

35 Roschon Johnson, Bears vs. Lions

36 Tyjae Spears, Titans @ Dolphins

37 Kareem Hunt, Browns vs. Jaguars

38 Tyler Allgeier, Falcons vs. Buccaneers

39 Chuba Hubbard, Panthers @ Saints

40 D'Onta Foreman, Bears vs. Lions

41 Devin Singletary, Texans @ Jets

42 Dalvin Cook, Jets vs. Texans

43 Zach Charbonnet, Seahawks @ 49ers

44 Chase Brown, Bengals vs. Colts

45 D'Ernest Johnson, Jaguars @ Browns

46 Miles Sanders, Panthers @ Saints

47 Joshua Kelley, Chargers vs. Broncos

48 Royce Freeman, Rams @ Ravens

49 Jaleel McLaughlin, Broncos @ Chargers

50 Jeff Wilson Jr., Dolphins vs. Titans

51 Ty Chandler, Vikings @ Raiders

52 Justice Hill, Ravens vs. Rams

53 Khalil Herbert, Bears vs. Lions

54 Latavius Murray, Bills @ Chiefs

55 Cordarrelle Patterson, Falcons vs. Buccaneers

56 Kenneth Gainwell, Eagles @ Cowboys

57 Tank Bigsby, Jaguars @ Browns

58 Rico Dowdle, Cowboys vs. Eagles

59 Samaje Perine, Broncos @ Chargers

60 Matt Breida, Giants vs. Packers

61 Chase Edmonds, Buccaneers @ Falcons

62 Boston Scott, Eagles @ Cowboys

63 Jamaal Williams, Saints vs. Panthers