Most season-long fantasy leagues are entering their final week of the regular season in Week 14, and if your team isn't going to qualify for the postseason, then welcome to the DFS side of things, where every week is a new season and every DraftKings lineup can be the one that changes your life.

In this world, we don't have to sweat the injury reports, make difficult trades, or even concern ourselves with bad matchups. Instead, we get to enjoy each week for what it is -- a new opportunity. Whether it's your first time or your 200th time, there's something to keep us all coming back. Without further ado, welcome to our DraftKings lineup for Week 14.

Before we break down all of our picks, here are the most notable scoring rules for DraftKings contests: Full-point PPR, four-point passing TDs, three-point bonuses for 100 rushing yards, 100 receiving yards, and 300 passing yards.

WEEK 14 FANTASY ADVICE:

Sleepers | Busts | Projections | Start-sit

DraftKings Picks Week 14: NFL DFS lineup for GPP tournaments

Sunday main slate, $50,000 budget

QB Justin Fields, Bears vs. Lions ($6,800). The Lions might have control over the NFC North, but their defense is losing steam as the season progresses. Detroit appeared well on their way to a dominant victory over New Orleans until they let the corpse of the 2023 Saints march back into it, nearly taking a lead (which is alarming with this version of Derek Carr leading the charge). Fields recently had success against the divisional foe, rushing for 104 yards and tossing a touchdown in Week 11. The dual-threat QB should be in line for a great day at home.

RB Christian McCaffrey, 49ers vs. Seahawks ($9,200). Sometimes, you just have to splurge and live a little. Fantasy's best RB has been a little rich for us all season, but now is the time to strike. The 49ers are coming off an emotional win over the Eagles after stomping the Seahawks on Thanksgiving. They are trying to track down the top spot in the NFC and will continue to lean on their stars. McCaffrey just rushed over 100 yards and two touchdowns against this same defense two weeks ago, and his floor remains at the penthouse with a ceiling that stretches to the moon -- the place we hope to be going with him in the lineup.

WEEK 14 DFS: FD lineup | Best values | Best stacks

RB Alvin Kamara, Saints vs. Panthers ($8,200). The Saints have a QB problem and the offense is stuck in quicksand more often than not. Derek Carr will likely be out with a concussion, leaving Jameis Winston to start. The Winston experience is certainly not for the faint of heart, but it's undoubtedly exciting. Kamara remains a fixture in the offense as arguably the team's top runner and receiver, thanks to his work as a security blanket for whichever QB is under center. The Panthers remain terrible at defending RBs, giving Kamara the perfect landing spot to build on what was a solid Week 13. We can pencil him in for at least 100 total yards and a touchdown.

WR DJ Moore, Bears vs. Lions ($6,500). Fields' chemistry with Moore is fairly obvious by now. The connection continues to shine with each passing week, totaling 210 yards over the past two games in addition to scoring a TD. We're especially fond of the 22 targets with a leaky secondary once again on tap. Moore cooked the Lions to the tune of almost 23 fantasy points in Week 12, and being well-rested off the bye means we're likely to see more of the same.

WEEK 14 PPR RANKINGS:

QBs | RBs | WRs | TEs | D/STs | Kickers

WR Drake London, Falcons vs. Buccaneers ($4,600). When we see the Buccaneers on the schedule, we immediately look to see what WR1 is going to have a big day. It wasn't the greatest feeling in the world seeing the Falcons this week, but we're confident in London's ability to make this pick worth our while. He hauled in six-of-seven targets for 54 yards and almost added a score in Week 7 against Tampa, indicating history is on our side here. Because we splurged for McCaffrey and Kamara, we had to sacrifice salary elsewhere, and London is a high-upside option even in an offense that doesn't throw the ball with efficiency.

WR Jaxon Smith-Njigba, Seahawks @ 49ers ($4,100). Is a takeover underway in the Seahawks offense? Smith-Njigba is coming off a game against the Cowboys that saw him collect seven-of-11 targets for 62 yards. It's a step up from a disappointing outing against San Francisco, but Tyler Lockett's involvement seems to be lessening as of late with the rookie stepping up. It wasn't a great day for the Seattle offense on Thanksgiving against the Niners, but the Seahawks should put up a better effort against a divisional opponent they know so well. If they're trailing, JSN should see action with a negative game script.

WEEK 14 STANDARD RANKINGS:

QBs | RBs | WRs | TEs | D/STs | Kickers

TE Brevin Jordan, Texans @ Jets ($3,100). Jordan was a great streaming option and fill-in for the crowd that lost Dalton Schultz (hamstring) on Sunday, hauling in three-of-four targets for 64 yards against the Broncos. If Schultz is out again, Jordan is a serviceable option that has touchdown upside against a reeling Jets team that is busy booking vacations or plotting how to find themselves on a different roster in 2024. If Schultz does play, we'll pivot to the Jets' Tyler Conklin, who is $100 less and has plenty of opportunity in an even better matchup.

FLEX WR Jameson Williams, Lions @ Bears ($3,500). As we come down to the last remaining dollars of our Week 14 budget, we need to take some swings and hope that the wind blows in our direction. What better way to approach this than with a pick from the game in the Windy City? Williams typically has around three chances a game to make a big play, something he's delivered on in two of the past three weeks -- including against the Bears two weeks ago. He's the perfect boom-or-bust target in a game that could feature a lot of points like it did last time.

DEF Texans @ Jets ($4,000). We're right back to exploiting the Jets' offense since it's one of the few that we can trust to score fewer than 10 points every week. With Zach Wilson reportedly reluctant to play and further destroy a career hanging on by a thread, that leaves us with Tim Boyle, Trevor Siemian, or the lucky fan from Section 139 to lead the Jets to yet another embarrassing defeat. As the Texans try to make a playoff push, this one could get ugly.

Best SuperDraft NFL DFS Picks for Week 14

This season, we're also listing our favorite Week 14 DFS lineup on SuperDraft, with some of our picks and analysis overlapping.

For those unfamiliar, SuperDraft's DFS scoring involves point multipliers as opposed to traditional salary-capped or tiered contests. A winning lineup will likely feature a strong mix of stud fantasy contributors with 1x-1.6x boosts, as well as a few matchup-based sleepers with larger multipliers. Each player is assigned a scoring multiplier based on their value as determined by SuperDraft. Users can roster any player in their lineup with no restrictions.

Win BIG with SuperDraft! Join now and get a free deposit match of $20!

Here are the most notable scoring rules for SuperDraft NFL contests: Half-point PPR, four-point passing TDs, two-point bonuses for 100 rushing yards, 100 receiving yards, and 300 passing yards.

MORE SUPERDRAFT DFS: How to play SuperDraft

QB: Justin Fields, Bears (Multiplier 1.2x)

RB: Christian McCaffrey, 49ers (Multiplier 1x)

RB: Joe Mixon, Bengals (Multiplier 1.3x)

WR: DJ Moore, Bears (Multiplier 1.25x)

WR: Michael Pittman Jr., Colts (Multiplier 1.2x)

WR: Mike Evans, Buccaneers (Multiplier 1.1x)

TE: Gerald Everett, Chargers (Multiplier 1.6x)

FLEX: RB Alvin Kamara, Saints (Multiplier 1.1x)

We're combining forces between our FanDuel and DraftKings lineup to build this week's aptly named SuperDraft lineup that features our Fields-Moore stack and plenty of other players in great matchups who continue to produce at a high level each week.