It was all Seahawks on “Monday Night Football” as the team turned in a dominant defensive effort en route to a 24-3 win over the Giants to wrap up Week 4 of the NFL season.

In addition to sacking Daniel Jones 11 times, Seattle’s defense forced New York’s QB to commit three turnovers — a fumble and two interceptions, none more notable than rookie Devon Witherspoon's 97-yard pick-6 that turned the game on its ear.

With the win, the Seahawks move to 3-1 on the season, including a perfect 2-0 record away from home. The Giants drop to 1-3 on the season and have been outscored 64-3 in two primetime home losses.

The Sporting News tracked score updates and highlights from throughout Monday night's meeting between New York and Seattle.

Seahawks vs. Giants final score

1 2 3 4 Final Seahawks 7 7 7 3 24 Giants 0 3 0 0 3

Seahawks vs. Giants live updates, highlights from 'Monday Night Football'

(All times Eastern)

Team stats

Seahawks Giants First downs 13 17 Third downs 3-12 6-16 Fourth downs 0-2 2-4 Total yards 281 248 Passing 15-26, 160 yards 27-34, 136 yards Rushing att-yards 23-121 29-112 Penalties-yards 8-74 6-45 Turnovers 0 3 Time of possession 24:00 36:00

Final: Seahawks 24, Giants 3

11:18 p.m.: It's a wrap at MetLife Stadium. The Seahawks advance to 3-1 on the year while the Giants fall to 1-3.

New York has been dominated at home twice this season now, as this performance follows a 40-0 blowout in Week 1 on "Sunday Night Football." Daniel Jones' career mark in primetime falls to 1-13 and 0-3 this season.

11:09 p.m.: TURNOVER ON DOWNS! Daniel Jones is sacked for an 11th time as Seattle takes back over at the New York 35-yard line.

Geno Smith's night appears to be done as Drew Lock is back in for the Seahawks.

11:06 p.m: Daniel Jones is back under center for New York, which will look to drive and score to at least lessen the damage on the scoreboard.

11:04 p.m.: FIELD GOAL! The turnover leads to three points for the Seahawks, who get a 34-yard field goal from Jason Myers. It's a three-touchdown lead for Seattle now with just over five minutes to play.

Seahawks 24, Giants 3

10:59 p.m.: INTERCEPTION! The nightmarish game for Daniel Jones continues as he commits his third turnover of the game, a pass intercepted by Seahawks safety Quandre Diggs.

After being sacked nine times and committing three turnovers, Jones may not have much more time on the field tonight.

10:56 p.m.: New York forces a three-and-out to get the ball back and on the first offensive play, Daniel Jones is sacked again.

Jones has now been sacked nine times in the game. It's a rough showing considering Seattle entered the week with just five sacks on the season.

10:48 p.m.: …And ANOTHER sack.

Daniel Jones has now been sacked eight times in the game and New York will be forced to punt as it faces fourth-and-31.

Fans are starting to leave the Meadowlands as it's been all Seahawks tonight.

10:45 p.m.: Daniel Jones has now been sacked seven times in the game.

Bobby Wagner gets Jones again, setting up second-and-28 for the Giants, who were already at a disadvantage thanks to a penalty on first down.

End of third quarter: Seahawks 21, Giants 3

10:33 p.m.: PICK SIX! In the worst possible outcome for the Giants, Devon Witherspoon sits on an underneath route and intercepts Daniel Jones, returning the pick 97 yards for a touchdown. The PAT is good!

What could have been a one-possession game is now a three-score game. And Daniel Jones now has two turnovers in this one.

Seahawks 21, Giants 3

10:30 p.m.: The Giants just pulled off one of their biggest plays of the night.

On fourth-and-1 from Seattle's 16-yard line, Brian Daboll elects to keep the offense on the field instead of electing for three points. Out of play action, Daniel Jones rolls out and gets 11 yards to bring New York within five yards of its first touchdown of the night.

10:22 p.m.: A 53-yard field goal attempt from Jason Myers is no good!

Seattle fails to add to its lead and New York gets another chance to cut into its deficit, this time, with field position that's slightly more favorable. The Giants will take over at their on 34-yard line.

10:16 p.m.: New York's drive ends about as quickly as it began as it is three-and-out for the Giants.

Daniel Jones is sacked for a sixth time this evening. This time it's eight-time Pro Bowler Bobby Wagner. The excitement at MetLife Stadium is gone once again as New York will punt from its own 12.

10:12 p.m.: TURNOVER ON DOWNS! New York gives its fans something to be excited about as its defense holds up on fourth down thanks to a major PBU from LB Micah McFadden.

The Giants keep the Seahawks off the board and take over at their own 15-yard line.

10:03 p.m.: The second half is underway and Geno Smith is back on the field for the Seahawks.

Seattle fans can breathe a sigh of relief as its top signal-caller will be back under center and avoided serious injury.

Halftime: Seahawks 14, Giants 3

9:47 p.m.: The half closes with New York committing its third and fourth special teams penalties of the night, giving Seattle the ball back after it intended to punt on fourth-and-4.

As the Seahawks get the ball back, they run the clock out as boos begin to rain down on the Giants from their home crowd.

Making matters worse, Seattle is set to receive the second-half kickoff.

9:37 p.m: TOUCHDOWN! RB Kenneth Walker III punches it in from one yard out. It's his second touchdown of the 2023 season.

The play doesn't come without extracurriculars, however, as it is followed by a scrum between linemen. The result is offsetting penalties from Seahawks G Anthony Bradford and Giants DE Leonard Williams.

Seahawks 14, Giants 3.

9:35 p.m.: Drew Lock is balling.

Lock connects with Noah Fant for a 51-yard completion that has the Seahawks on the 1-yard line. Credit to Fant, as he used his footwork to toe the sideline and turn the completion to a big play.

9:30 p.m.: At the two-minute warning, Drew Lock has gotten the Seahawks to their own 48-yard line. Lock will continue to lead the Seahawks' two-minute drill.

Geno Smith is out of the medical tent and headed to the locker room for further testing on his knee. His status for the remainder of the game is questionable.

The Seahawks will look to add some cushion to their lead as they will also receive the ball to open the second half.

9:26 p.m.: Geno Smith's displeasure with the tackle from earlier is beginning to make sense. Seattle's QB has been in the medical tent with an undetermined injury.

Drew Lock will be taking snaps until there is more clarity on Smith's status moving forward.

9:23 p.m.: FIELD GOAL! Graham Gano connects on a 55-yarder to get the Giants on the board. Since the beginning of last season, Gano is 10 of 11 on attempts that are 50 yards or longer.

Seahawks 7, Giants 3

9:11 p.m.: We've got some fireworks on the field.

Geno Smith catches his own batted pass and on the ensuing run, is pulled down out of bounds by Giants LB Isaiah Simmons. Smith, clearly taking exception to the hit, comes back on the field and has words for S Xavier McKinney.

New York almost forces a turnover on third down but still gets off the field. Smith appears to be slightly hobbled after the hit.

End of first quarter: Seahawks 7, Giants 0

8:56 p.m.: TOUCHDOWN! As time expires in the first quarter, Geno Smith rolls out and finds DK Metcalf, who hauls in his second touchdown of the year.

The extra point is good! And Seattle turns a turnover into seven points.

Seahawks 7, Giants 0

8:54 p.m.: FUMBLE! After evading one sack, Daniel Jones is sacked at the Giants 15-yard line by Mario Edwards, who also forces the ball out.

Seattle recovers and returns the fumble to New York's 7-yard line, where it will look to score for the first time tonight.

8:47 p.m.: Flags… flags everywhere.

Four straight plays with a penalty for the Seahawks means their drive officially starts with a first-and-20. As the game approaches the two-minute mark of the first quarter, neither team has been able to strike offensively.

8:35 p.m.: Jamal Adams has been ruled out for the remainder of the game.

8:34 p.m.: And a few more bizarre plays. It's a three-and-out for Seattle, which sees its drive end courtesy of a sack from Kayvon Thibodeaux.

The Giants muff the punt from Michael Dixon but avoid a crisis by recovering it. New York will take the floor for its second offensive drive from Seattle's 34-yard line.

8:28 p.m.: We've got our first bizarre play of the night.

Seahawks RB Kenneth Walker III runs for a touchdown after he isn't ruled down but the play is called back. Instead of a 73-yard touchdown run, it's a two-yard loss.

8:25 p.m.: TURNOVER ON DOWNS! On fourth-and-1 from the Seahawks' 27-yard line, Daniel Jones is stopped in his tracks as he attempts a QB sneak.

After an impressive defensive stand, Geno Smith and the Seattle offense will take the field for the first time tonight.

8:22 p.m.: Jamal Adams' return to the field may end up being short-lived.

Adams was on the wrong end of a knee to the helmet and appeared to be shaken up as he needed some assistance getting off the field. More updates to come on Adams' status.

8:15 p.m.: Seattle wins the coin toss and defers to the second half.

New York elects for a fair catch on the kickoff, meaning Daniel Jones and company will get their night started on the 25-yard line.

Pregame

7:50 p.m.: It's officially official.

Jamal Adams is back on the field warming up for the Seahawks, surely a welcome sight for the 12s.

6:55 p.m.: Saquon Barkley has officially been ruled inactive for the Giants.

Joining Barkley on the inactive list are S Bobby McCain, S Gervarrius Owens, T Andrew Thomas and DL Jordon Riley.

Inactive for the Seahawks: CB Coby Bryant, CB Tre Brown, CB Artie Burns, LB Nick Bellore, G McClendon Curtis, T Charles Cross and G Ben Brown.

6:25 p.m.: With less than two hours remaining until kickoff, there's still no concrete update on the availability of Giants RB Saquon Barkley, who is currently listed as doubtful with a high ankle sprain.

Barring a last-minute change, it doesn't appear as though No. 26 will be suiting up for New York.

6 p.m.: Jamal Adams is back!

For the first time since Week 1 of the 2022 NFL season, the three-time All-Pro safety will take the field for the Seahawks. Almost poetically, Adams makes his return to the field in the place he called home for the first three years of his career as a member of the Jets.

What channel is Seahawks vs. Giants on today?

Game: Seattle Seahawks at New York Giants

Seattle Seahawks at New York Giants Date: Monday, Oct. 2

Monday, Oct. 2 TV channel: ABC, ESPN, ESPN2

ABC, ESPN, ESPN2 Live stream: ESPN+, NFL+, Fubo (U.S.) | DAZN (Canada)

Monday's game between the Seahawks and Giants will be simulcast on ABC and ESPN. The "Monday Night Football" crew of Joe Buck and Troy Aikman will be on the call.

Week 4 also marks the return of the "Manningcast" as Eli and Peyton Manning will offer an alternate broadcast presentation on ESPN2.

MORE: Manningcast schedule for 2023 NFL season

Seahawks vs. Giants start time

Date: Monday, Oct. 2

Monday, Oct. 2 Start time: 8:15 p.m. ET / 5:15 p.m. PT

Seahawks vs. Giants from MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J. will kick off at 8:15 p.m. ET, the customary kickoff time for "MNF" matchups this year.

NFL live stream for Seahawks vs. Giants

Live stream (U.S.): ESPN+, NFL+, Fubo

ESPN+, NFL+, Fubo Live stream (Canada): DAZN

American viewers have a few different options to live stream Monday's game. ESPN will broadcast the game over its proprietary streaming service, ESPN+ (subscription required). NFL+ will also carry the game, but a subscription is required, as well.

Cord-cutters in the U.S. can turn to Fubo for their streaming needs. Fubo carries the ESPN family of networks, ABC, NBC, CBS and NFL Network, so fans can catch a bevy of football action throughout the 2023 season. Fubo also offers a free trial.

Viewers in Canada can sign up for DAZN, which carries NFL Game Pass.

Monday Night Football schedule 2023