Travis Kelce has been catching a lot more than footballs lately, and fans everywhere have been swift to hop on the Taylor Swift bandwagon. The celebrity couple has been in the news for well over a week now, and despite the fatigue from many -- Chris 'Mad Dog' Russo's rant being among the most vocal -- companies like FanDuel just can't help but lean into a profitable storyline. Are they for real or is this "Love Story" just some extravagant publicity stunt?

Time will tell, but one thing's for certain when it comes to the media, social media, newspapers, football fans, Swifties, and just about everyone else within the 50 states and U.S. territories, including Puerto Rico and Guam: "You need to calm down." Regardless, Kelce and Swift take their tour on the road to Broadway, a place that puts on all the great shows. The traditional circus hasn't been in town for a few years now, but that's simply because the New York Jets exist and there was only room for one. It seems like ages since Aaron Rodgers marched out of the MetLife Stadium tunnel holding an American flag, but this is Zach Wilson's team now, whether you like it or not.

One of the most hyped "Sunday Night Football" games of the year was expected to feature Rodgers against Patrick Mahomes for the first time. Instead, we're more likely to be treated to non-stop split screens involving Swift and Rodgers, two people who won't be on the field. There will be some actual football, though, even if it is just a sideshow to the event everyone can't stop talking about. So, buckle up and enjoy whatever this is, and for all the fans paying ridiculous prices for a glimpse of Ms. Swift — make sure your phone is charged.

To Travis and Taylor, "Welcome to New York." It's been waiting for you. Well, actually, the swamps of northern New Jersey have. Enjoy the traffic and a look at the famous skyline.

For bettors, where there is hype, there's also an opportunity to make some money. FanDuel has released a special prop bets menu, cleverly called "Prop Stars" for the Swift-inspired wagers. Here's a look at how you can catch some cash in prime time.

MORE: Jets vs. Chiefs betting preview

FanDuel 'Prop Stars' Picks: Best bets for Travis Kelce & Taylor Swift-inspired props for Chiefs-Jets Week 4

Top of the Charts: Travis Kelce to have the Most Receiving Yards in the Game (+140)

The Jets know that Kelce is trouble long before he even walks in. If they want any chance in this game, they'll have to slow down No. 87. This is a New York defense that's been very good, although not quite great, over the last year and continues to improve. Robert Saleh's troops have held opponents in check, giving their anemic offense a fighting chance most weeks, but if there's one thing that Gang Green struggles to defend against, it's the tight end. They're giving up the fifth-most receiving yards to the position this season (56.3) and just allowed Pharoah Brown to beat them for a long 58-yard touchdown last Sunday. Getting +140 is a nice price for the best pass-catcher in this game, but there's too much blowout potential to warrant taking a flier here.

Our pick: Pass

Seeing Red: Chiefs to Win by 22+ (+380)

If this bet ends up cashing, the "Seeing Red" tagline would apply to a lot more than just Chiefs fans. Bettors would be in the green, and those wearing green would be the ones with red-ish, cartoon-like faces. Odds are, Wilson would have to be atrocious again considering New York's defense isn't a pushover. The Jets often like to make games close, even when they seemingly have no business in doing so. Even if they are steamrolled, a garbage time score is more than enough to ruin this wager.

Our pick: Pass

Opening Act: Travis Kelce First TD Scorer (+400)

Out of all the specials, this one is our favorite. The Chiefs will likely score first whether they get the opening kickoff or not. When we look at the Jets, we see an offensive coordinator that somehow underrated Micah Parsons and a team that refuses to take the training wheels off their former gunslinging quarterback. Wilson has turned into "Checkdown Charlie" as a result of conservative coaching, and we don't expect that to change in the early going. Lean into the narrative and sprinkle a little cash on Kelce to break the plane first.

Our pick: Bet on it

FriENDZONE: Travis Kelce to NOT score a TD (+120)

Obviously, based on our last recommendation, we're friendzoning this bet and not laying down any action on it.

Our pick: Pass

Running Away Together: Chiefs to have 150+ Total Rushing Yards (+420)

The strength of the Jets roster is along the defensive line, and the Chiefs are a pass-first team that loves to light it up through the air. This is the first time that Patrick Mahomes is playing in the New York area. He'll want to put on a show, and Andy Reid certainly isn't going to hold him back. Don't expect the Chiefs to start running until it's time to chew the clock.

Our pick: Pass

Seemingly Ranch: Travis Kelce Last TD Scorer (+550)

Ranch is a fine condiment and beloved by many, which makes this wager something that should be seen as an insult to ranch fans everywhere. Unless the Jets make this a close game or send it to overtime, we have a hard time believing that Kelce will even be on the field to score the last touchdown. Avoid this one like people with taste buds avoid bleu cheese and treat your nuggets with respect.

Our pick: Pass

Plot Twist: Zach Wilson to have 300+ Passing Yards (+1800)

If you asked the average Jets' fan what is holding this roster back, the overwhelming results would be Wilson. "I'm the problem, it's me," would probably qualify as the lyrics played in his walk-up song if fans had anything to say about it. But Wilson doesn't have time to be the anti-hero, or villain, as traditionalists would say. He needs to flip the script and shake it off. The Jets need to let him sling the ball around the field instead of worrying about the bad turnovers. They aren't winning this game 14-10, and they aren't winning anything if they can't let their quarterback be who he is. Are we betting this? Absolutely not, but that would be one heck of a plot twist, right? Perhaps the script writers are working overtime.

Our pick: Pass

Platinum Performance: Travis Kelce to Score 3+ TDs (+2500)

When it comes to Kelce's greatest hits, he prefers to save them for division rivals like the Raiders and Chargers. In your wildest dreams this bet might hit, and it might happen in reality too. Kelce could be schmoozing in the suite when the second half begins rather than throwing blocks and catching footballs on the field. But if the Jets keep it close, they are prone to being exploited by players like Kelce. With receivers lacking on the Chiefs sideline, the tight end might put on a show that is typically only found in show business. Considering he hosted “Saturday Night Live” back in March, Kelce is familiar with how to tell a story. We have him scoring once, so what’s another two times to cash a monster long shot? Don't count on it, but don't rule it out either. And please, have fun and bet responsibly.

Our pick: Bet on it (with a small wager)

Exes & 0s: NY Jets to Score 0 Total Points (+3400)

The Jets are currently back in a familiar place as the laughingstock of the NFL. Swift, like many celebrities, has plenty of exes, but she always scores again. Maybe the haters are right. Maybe Kelce will be the subject of the next big hit. Maybe the publicists are cashing checks with this brilliant idea. Maybe it's real. Time will tell, but when the relationship inevitably falls apart like most dream celebrity couples do, there is always another someone. Point is, the Jets are without the quarterback they married, and now they're back together with Wilson. It's not glamorous, but they'll score again. Shutting out NFL teams is no easy task, but the Chiefs defense is much improved and the Jets look like a team that doesn’t have a quarterback. Don’t consider it likely to hit, but +3400 wagers hardly ever are. Consider this a fun bet, unless you’re a Jets fan, and see how long K.C. can keep NYC off the scoreboard. They might just do it for the entire game.

Our pick: Bet on it (with a small wager)