PARIS – The All Blacks have downplayed Rieko Ioane’s gestures towards Ireland fans and retiring great Johnny Sexton, as the three-time world champions said they have learned to “respect Argentina” ahead of their semi-final on Saturday (6am AEDT).

It comes as Michael Cheika embraced the underdog status and said he was hoping Los Pumas “inspired” Argentina “not by our results but by our ambition”, as the former Wallabies coach readies for another clash against the All Blacks and a second semi-final.

Facebook Twitter Whatsapp Reddit Email Share

Ioane copped a spray from Sexton following their 28-24 nail-biting win over Ireland.

It came after the lethal back cupped his ear at Irish supporters at the Stade de France after the final whistle, as well as putting his finger to his lips in a ‘shush gesture’.

Ian Foster, who made two changes to his starting side and three in total, was forced to defend his centre’s actions while twisting the knife into Sexton’s finish.

“It happens on most sporting parks when tensions are high and a lot at stake,” Foster said.

“Unfortunately recently it’s also included players saying a few things to referees. Is it right for the game? I don’t know. You don’t hear a lot of players complaining about it.”

Advertisement

Captain Sam Cane added: “It’s players’ different personalities and emotions running high in those moments. There’s always people who have different tactics but it’s always just left out there.”

Foster recalled Sam Whitelock to the starting side in the only change to the pack.

Whitelock, whose breakdown penalty win after 37 phases denied Ireland a match-winning penalty, has been recalled and will partner Scott Barrett in the second-row. Brodie Retallick will come off the bench.

Elsewhere, Mark Telea has been recalled ahead of Leicester Fainga’anuku. The tryscoring machine was axed for the quarter-final after missing a team curfew.

“That’s the team we think best for this week,” Foster said.

“Mark has done his time. He made a mistake and accepted what was happening but you don’t linger in that space. He’s been our form winger. We have got a faith in him and think he is in good place to play this game.

Advertisement

“We really enjoyed Leicester Fainga’anuku]’s game last week and he should be proud of that and its’s a tough selection. It’s a chance for us to get Mark on the park.”

The All Blacks are 18-point favourites for the opening semi-final.

It comes despite Argentina knocking over the All Blacks last year in Christchurch, as well as a maiden defeat in 2020 in Sydney.

“The past sets us up beautifully for both teams,” Foster said.

“We do know each other but we don’t know each other terms of a Rugby World Cup, so at this stage in the tournament it’s new territory for us and as we’ve seen World Cups are very different.”

“We have learnt to greatly respect Argentina. They have a rich history of overachieving at the World Cup and have done a fantastic job to get here at the same level we are, so it is going to be a heck of a game.”

Advertisement

Foster said the All Blacks, who suffered a shock semi-final loss to Eddie Jones’ England in 2019, never consider themselves favourites.

“Firstly, you’ve never heard us say we’re favourites,” he said.

‘We know these games are do or die. We’re going to have to improve our performance. The stage gets bigger at this time in the tournament and you’ve got to grow your game. That’s our strong focus. The best team on the night wins – Argentina has done that to us.”

Cheika however was happy to remind the All Blacks who were favourites.

“”New Zealand has always been an example in rugby, a benchmark. They make you think of high-level skills in a really open game but there are always threats in the lineout, mauls and rucks,” said Cheika, whose Wallabies lost in the 2015 final.

“You have to take the moments you are in the game and see them coming at you at different times.

Advertisement

“In the game in 2020 there were things you could pinpoint. You can’t say that one game means we can do it as there are a lot of games where we haven’t.

“That moment has to be just a part of it. What we have done since then, all the success and failures [matters in our preparation]. The other team are heavy favourites, everyone is expecting a New Zealand and South Africa final. We just have to focus on what is required.”

Cheika has maintained that his Los Pumas side was too tight earlier in the tournament but has begun to free themselves up since qualifying for the knockout stages – and rewarding their fans by doing so.

On inspiring the country?

“It’s not easy,” he said.

“We want to inspire not just by our results but by our ambition, by our ability to get back up and overcome obstacles.

Advertisement

“To inspire is not about results, it’s not just one player who played well; no, it’s about our behaviour in general, our ability to be ready to come back from difficult times and seizing our opportunities.

“There are not a lot of opportunities in life – us playing in a semi-final is even rarer and we want to have no regrets.”