Discounts on Apple products are few and far between. Luckily, with Amazon's second big sale event of the year (officially called Prime Big Deal Days), we've found a variety of Prime Day Apple deals. That includes iPads, Apple Watches, iPhone cases, and MagSafe accessories. These deals aren't just at Amazon either—we've linked to other retailers like Best Buy when available.

WIRED Featured Deals

Updated October 11: We added new deals on the Apple Magic Keyboard, Apple Studio Display, ESR HaloLock 3-in-1 Travel Wireless Charging Set, Monoprice Extra Wide Microfiber Desk Mat, and Apple AirTags.

Table of Contents

We test products year-round and independently recommend the best. If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism. Learn more.

iPad Deals

If you'd like more info, check out our Best iPads guide for an overview of every iPad model.

iPad Photograph: Apple

The ninth-generation iPad (8/10, WIRED Recommends) is the best iPad for most people in our Best iPad guide. It's affordable (even without this discount) and packs a bunch of great features, including a 12-megapixel rear camera with support for Center Stage (which keeps you in the frame during video calls), 64 GB of storage on the base model, a True Tone display that adjusts the color temperature to match the ambient lighting in your environment, and a physical Touch ID-enabled home button. And since it's the same shape and size as its predecessors, all current accessories will work—like the first-generation Apple Pencil and Apple's Smart Keyboard. If you need cellular connectivity, the 4G LTE model is also on sale at Amazon for $379 ($21 off).

iPad Air Photograph: Apple

We recommend the iPad Air (8/10, WIRED Recommends) as an upgrade over the iPad (9th Gen). It packs a 10.9-inch LCD screen, a USB-C port, slim bezels, Touch ID built into the top power button, and the same M1 processor as the 2020 MacBook Air. It also has support for both the second-generation Apple Pencil, Smart Keyboard Cover, and Magic Keyboard Cover. It dipped lower to $460 in July, but we still think this is a solid deal.

iPad Pro Photograph: Apple

Apple's iPad Pro tablet (7/10, WIRED Review) packs incremental upgrades compared to its predecessor, but it's the best option if you want the ultimate iPad. The large, 12.9-inch LCD screen comes equipped with ProMotion (which offers a 120-Hz screen refresh rate for smoother scrolling), Face ID, four speakers for better sound quality, and more microphones to pick up your voice more clearly. It also packs an M2 chip (the same one powering the MacBook Air and Mac Mini) and an exclusive Hover Mode for the second-gen Apple that allows you to see a preview of what your stylus will do when you hover over the screen.

iPad Mini Photograph: Apple

The iPad Mini (8/10, WIRED Recommends) is our go-to tablet for travel. It's small enough to slip into my backpack and fits perfectly on an airplane tray table. With an 8.3-inch display, it's great for watching movies or reading ebooks, as well as sketching and taking notes with the second-generation Apple Pencil. Equipped with an A15 Bionic processor (the same chip powering the 2021 iPhone 13), it can handle taxing apps and games with ease. It should have enough power to last you for many years. It's worth noting Apple is rumored to be launching a next-gen version soon, but this is still a solid tablet if you don't need the latest and greatest.

MacBook and Accessory Deals

Read our Best MacBooks guide for more info and other options.

Apple MacBook Air Photograph: Apple

The M1-powered MacBook Air (9/10, WIRED Recommends) is our favorite budget MacBook. It's a few years old by now, but it's still one of the most powerful laptops you can buy for this price. It's fast and light and can make quick work of simple office tasks. It also has an improved keyboard (the one that doesn't break). The Air can handle some light video editing if the need arises, but if you need more power, spring for one of the newer, beefier options.

MacBook Pro Photograph: Apple

We really only recommend this MacBook Pro (7/10, WIRED Review) if you want the touch bar. It does have the same M2 chip as the 13-inch MacBook Air (our top pick in our Best MacBooks guide), but it still comes with the same 13.3-inch display, 720p webcam, and two Thunderbolt USB-C ports. Performance is great, and there's reliable battery life, but we don't suggest it for processor-intensive workloads.

MacBook Air Photograph: Apple

The 15-inch MacBook Air (8/10, WIRED Recommends) is the first large-screen option within the Air family. It packs all the same features as the 13-inch MacBook Air including a redesigned chassis, 1080p webcam, and M2 chip—while still maintaining a lightweight and thin design. It's an excellent option for those who spend all day working off a laptop and don't want to plug into an external monitor.

This is our favorite external keyboard in our guide to Best MacBook Accessories. It's a great option if you're a fan of the Magic Keyboard and are looking to fully replicate your MacBook setup. However, this version is fairly bare-bones—it doesn't come with a Touch ID button or the same function row keys as the M-series MacBooks (that model isn't on sale, sadly). But it does come with the standard keys like playback controls, a Mission Control key, as well as a number pad. This is also the lowest price we've tracked for this keyboard, so far.

Apple Studio Display Photograph: Apple

The Studio Display (9/10, WIRED Recommends) has a spacious 27-inch display that's perfect for juggling multiple apps at the same time and a 5K resolution that's stunningly sharp (there's no HDR though, so colors look slightly more contrasty and saturated compared to the neutral tones on Apple's Pro Display XDR). Although it's pricey, this is an excellent monitor for those who want a really accurate and sharp screen. Equipped with a 12-megapixel camera, along with built-in mics and speakers, it's ideal for video calls too. This is also the lowest price we've tracked, yet.

If you're constantly working on the go, a portable monitor is a great way to get more screen real estate. This one from Mobile Pixels attaches to your laptop screen using magnets (you'll have to be comfortable with sticking and leaving adhesive magnets on the back of your laptop) and connects via a USB-C cable. Simply slide it out to reveal a 13-inch display. It adds some bulk and thickness to your laptop, but you can remove it when it's not in use.

We love this laptop stand for those who prefer working from your bed or couch. The stand's height isn't adjustable, but you have the option to raise the base to position it at the best angle for typing, watching a movie on a tablet, or sketching. There's also extra space for your coffee mug and a small drawer for storing knickknacks.

Twelve South StayGo Mini USB-C Hub Photograph: Twelve South

We've used this hub with iPads, but it's also great for MacBooks. Plug it in via the USB-C port on your laptop and you'll have access to another USB-C port for passthrough charging, a USB-A port, an HDMI output, and a headphone jack. It's also fairly compact and thin, so it won't add to much bulk to your laptop.

This is the runner-up to the aforementioned Twelve South StayGo Mini in our guide to Best MacBook Accessories. With support for up to three displays at once (either DisplayPort or HDMI for each), it's an excellent choice for anyone using multiple monitors to get work done. The dock also packs six USB 3.0 ports (two on the front, four in the back) and a gigabit Ethernet port. All you have to do is plug in your MacBook for a multi-monitor setup instantly. With an output of up to 60 watts, you can also the dock to charge your laptop as well. This is also the lowest price we've tracked, so far.

We recommend Satechi's 108-watt wall charger if you own a MacBook Pro. It comes with three USB-C ports, each with the ability to charge at 100 watts if only one device is connected (making it perfect for the 16-inch MacBook Pro). But if you want to charge three gadgets simultaneously, it'll charge them at 45, 30, and 30 watts, respectively, 58, 30, and 20 watts, or 65, 20, and 20 watts, depending on what you're charging. It's also on the larger side, but it's not as big as the one from Apple, and the plug folds up too.

Satechi 165-Watt GaN Four-Port Charger Photograph: Satechi

This handy charger has enough power to juice up two MacBook Pro models simultaneously. But it's also great if you have a lot of devices around your desk that constantly need to be charged. It has a little stand to prop it up, a short cord that goes out to an outlet, and four USB-C ports that output 100 watts each. It dipped lower to $90 back in July, but this is still a great deal.

We've featured this deal a few times during previous shopping holidays. It's still a good one. This tablet stand is included in several WIRED guides, including the Best iPad Accessories and the Best Work-from-Home Gear. The stand is lightweight, portable, and easy to use.

Apple Watch and Strap Deals

Read our Best Apple Watch and Best Apple Watch Accessories guides for more.

Apple Watch SE Photograph: Apple

If you don't need all the extensive capabilities that come with the Apple Watch Series 9, then the second-generation Apple Watch SE is a great option for most people. It can still track important health and fitness features, and with the latest S8 chip, you'll also get the redesigned Compass app and Crash Detection. It has support for WatchOS 10 too, so you don't have to worry about missing out on the latest software updates. This is the lowest price we've tracked yet. The larger 44-mm version is also on sale for $229 ($50 off).

Apple Watch Ultra 2 Photograph: Apple

The Apple Watch Ultra 2 (8/10, WIRED Recommends) is only a month old but it's already on sale. It's our favorite smartwatch for outdoor sports. It packs a new (and bright) 3,000-nit display, the latest S9 chip for faster processing, and the new ultra-wideband chip for precision-locating your phone. As with last year's version, it also comes equipped with a useful Action button and the three-mic array. It's a great option if you're heavily into outdoor sports and are looking for a rugged, full-functioning smartwatch to take along with you. It's also the Apple Watch with the best battery life thanks to its massive size.

Apple Silver Milanese Loop Photograph: Apple

The Silver Milanese Loop band is a great metal band for when you're not using your Apple Watch for workouts. It's made from stainless steel, the thin mesh is extremely flexible, and the magnetic clasp makes it easy to adjust the sizing. This deal applies to the 41-mm size in silver and graphite, but the 45-mm band is also on sale.

This is the best band for the Apple Watch Ultra in our Best Apple Watch Accessories guide. It's made from an elastomer with a titanium buckle. We specifically like that it's stretchy, bright, and fits small wrists. The band is also easy to wash and shows dirt much less easily than the fabric bands. It's compatible with the large 45-mm Apple Watch Series 8 as well.

We like this microfiber mat since it keeps your desk looking nice and clean, and doubles as a giant mousepad. It's pretty minimalist and only comes in black, but at this sale price that's all we need.

Earbud and Headphone Deals

Read our Best Wireless Earbuds guide for more.

AirPods Pro Photograph: Apple

The latest version of the AirPods Pro (9/10, WIRED Recommends) was just announced last month at Apple's hardware event and they're already on sale. These buds are identical to the old pair on the outside, but they pack some changes internally. In addition to slightly improved sound, there are also new Adaptive Audio features and a new Conversation Awareness mode (that turns audio down and lowers the sound of the background so you can hear someone talking to you). The version with the Lightning port is currently out of stock, but who wants those anyway?

The Beats Studio Pro Wireless Headphones (7/10, WIRED Review) pack excellent calling and noise canceling, good sound quality, and fantastic wireless range. They also offer a stable fit and compact design. These headphones are missing a few key features though, including sensors for auto-pause and multi-band EQ. But with improved sound quality and ANC, along with a few cool extra features for both Android and Apple devices, these are still a solid option—especially if they're on sale. This is the lowest price we've tracked, so far.

Beats Fit Pro Photograph: Beats

The Beats Fit Pro (9/10, WIRED Recommends) deliver a comfortable fit, great sound, and seamless integration with both iOS and Android. They also feature active noise canceling and decent mics. Equipped with Apple's proprietary H1 headphone chip, they work like AirPods when used with an iPhone. These work great on Android too—complete with an app that allows you to perform a fit test and customize the controls. They dipped to $125 back in August, but this is still a good deal.

WIRED associate editor Parker Hall says the Studio Buds fit better than most buds he's ever tried. He also likes that they have extremely useful physical buttons on the outside to play and pause audio as well as control noise cancelation. They'll also stay put in your ears even when breaking a sweat and sound as good as Apple's AirPods Pro. This is the same price we saw on Prime Day in July, but it's also the lowest the price has dipped.

Beats Powerbeats Pro Photograph: Beats

The Powerbeats Pro (8/10, WIRED Recommends) came out in 2019, but these are still our top recommendation for earbuds with the most secure fit—making them an excellent option for the most intensive workouts. With an IPX4 water-resistance rating, they'll also stay protected from sweat. They have excellent sound quality and offer an impressive nine hours of battery life (with an extra 18 hours in the case). It's worth noting that many of the features won't work with an Android phone, but the core functions will.

Apple Charger Deals

Check out our Best Apple 3-in-1 Wireless Chargers and Best MagSafe Power Banks guides for more.

Anker 3-in-1 Wireless Charging Cube Photograph: Anker

This 2.5-inch cube from Anker is a great compact charger. It comes with a MagSafe pad on top (that charges at up to 15 watts), a top section that hinges to a 60-degree angle to reveal a charging surface for your AirPods, and a shelf on the side that has a built-in Apple Watch charger (which can comfortably accommodate any Apple Watch including the Ultra). You'll also get a 5-foot cable and a 30-watt charger in the box. It supports fast charging too.

Anker 3-in-1 MagSafe Wireless Charging Dock Photograph: Anker

This is another excellent and compact 3-in-1 wireless charger from Anker. A MagSafe pad charges iPhones up to 15 watts at a slanted angle, and on the side is a standard Apple Watch puck (no fast-charging support). In the space inside the triangle is where you can place your AirPods Pro (or any other wireless earbuds case) to top them up.

Belkin 3-in-1 Wireless Charger Photograph: Belkin

This is currently our favorite Apple 3-in-1 wireless charger. The T-shaped design is compact, so it won't take up that much space on your nightstand or desk, and the charging tree suspends two of your devices midair. You can use it to charge your iPhone (at the fastest 15-watt charging speed Apple allows), fast-charge the Apple Watch Series 7/8/9/Ultra, and use the base to charge your AirPods Pro (or AirPods with a wireless charging case) simultaneously all from a single outlet. It's normally around $150 but was discounted to $100 in August, so it's possible that Prime Day won't be your last opportunity to snag it for less.

Anker MagGo 637 Photograph: Anker

All you have to do is stick your iPhone to this adorable little orb and it'll start charging. On the back, you'll also find two USB-C ports, two USB-A ports, and three AC outlets. It's both cute and tidy. It fluctuates in price very often, but it's still a good deal.

Satechi's fold-up wireless charging stand has a 10,000-mAh capacity (complete with LEDs to show you how much juice you have left) and can wirelessly charge both your phone and a wireless earbuds case (as long as it's Qi-certified). There's also a USB-C port to power up a third device. The only gripe we have is that it's slow—delivering 10 watts of wireless charging power for phones (7.5 watts for iPhones), 5 watts for earbuds, and 10 watts via the USB-C port.

Apple 35-Watt Dual USB-C Port Compact Power Adapter Photograph: Apple

Apple's dual USB-C port power adapter is an essential accessory if you have a tendency to forget to pack chargers for your devices on the go. With two USB-C ports, you can use it to recharge both your iPhone and MacBook simultaneously. Rated at 35 watts, it's also powerful enough to recharge an iPad Pro or iPhone 15 Pro Max.

The MagSafe Duo makes for an excellent travel companion if you own an iPhone and an Apple Watch. Rather than packing separate chargers, the MagSafe Duo combines chargers for both all within a compact, foldable form factor. You can also use it to charge your AirPods (if it comes with a wireless charging case) and other Qi-certified devices.

iOttie Velox Pro Magnetic Wireless Cooling Car Dash Mount Photograph: iOttie

iOttie's Velox Pro Magnetic Wireless Cooling Charger is great for those who prefer a mount on your dash or windshield and have an iPhone 12 or later. The suction cup attaches to a dashboard pad or windshield and proved secure in our testing. The telescopic arm (combined with a ball joint) also delivers a wide range of movement to help you find the ideal position. Unfortunately, it maxes out at 7.5 watts for charging, but you can remove the USB-C charging cable when the iPhone is fully charged. There's also a built-in fan to help keep the temperature down when it's hot out.

Anker Nano USB-C Power Bank Photograph: Anker

This is a great power bank if you don't want to worry about carrying a cable around, since it simply slots into the bottom of your phone—thanks to the built-in rotating USB-C or Lightning connector (MFi certified). It also offers 5,000 mAh of energy, and there's a USB-C port for recharging it, complete with a short cable. However, it might not be a good pick if you have a thick case.

This 2-in-1 charger is featured in our guide to the Best MagSafe Accessories. The price matches the lowest we have tracked. It doesn't have a built-in Apple Watch charger, but it can top off your compatible wireless earbuds whilst simultaneously charging your iPhone. It charges at the maximum 15-watt rate, and you can turn your iPhone sideways for iOS 17’s new StandBy mode, converting it into a bedside alarm clock.

Anker 737 Power Bank Photograph: Anker

We just added this power bank as our top upgrade pick in our guide to the Best Portable Chargers. It's pricey, but today's deal makes it more accessible. It charges from zero to completely full in an hour and boasts a whopping 24,000-mAh capacity. And it's powerful enough to charge laptops and tablets as well as phones and other gadgets. There's even a built-in display to monitor stats like temperature and remaining battery percentage.

Nomad's wireless charger is one of our favorite MagSafe wireless chargers. It delivers the maximum 15-watt charging speed possible, but it's not meant to be held up while you use the phone. It doesn't have a power adapter but includes a USB-C-to-USB-C cable. It'll sit securely on your desk and can charge an Apple Watch, too.

This travel kit from ESR works well if you want something that can prop your iPhone in portrait or landscape orientation. It can also display your Apple Watch in Nightstand mode, so you can peek and see how long before you must get out of bed. The main body folds open with a MagSafe charging pad for your iPhone and a slot behind for your AirPods. Unfortunately, it doesn't support fast charging and it's capped at 7.5 watts and 5 watts for the iPhone and Apple Watch, respectively. But it's a good, affordable charger. It dipped a little lower to $40 back in July, but this is still a solid deal.

Phone Cases and Accessory Deals

Be sure to read our Best MagSafe Accessories and Best iPhone 15 Cases guides for other picks.

Photograph: iOttie

What we like best about this phone mount is that you can use it one-handed. The arms automatically close around the phone when you place it against the trigger button. To remove it, press the release bars. There's also a telescopic arm and ball joint that allows you to tweak the placement and set an ideal angle. We also love the clever magnetic tab that attaches the charging cable to the back of the mount, to keep from having to fish around for it. Plus, it's super sturdy—even on bumpy roads.

If you're tired of people glancing over at your display in public, the Glass Elite Privacy 360 will block anyone from seeing content on your screen from the sides. It also feels great and is fairly easy to apply. Our only gripe is that Zagg's screen protectors are expensive. This has hit as low as $24, but it's a solid deal if you're in need of a screen protector sooner rather than later.

Casetify Case Photograph: Casetify

Casetify offers an overwhelming variety of case designs, but they can get pricey. So, if you've been eyeing one, we suggest taking advantage of the storewide sale. We like the Impact MagSafe cases, which have chunky bumpers and edges to protect the screen and are also made of plant-based materials as well as upcycled Casetify cases. The Bounce case is another solid choice that feels more rugged, but they're quite bulky. It's worth noting the sale doesn't apply to iPhone 15 products.

OtterBox Figura Photograph: Otterbox

We like OtterBox cases, and many are 20 percent off, including chargers, cables, and other accessories. We've got recommendations in our iPhone 15 and iPhone 14 case guides.

Case-Mate Blox Photograph: Case-Mate

If you're looking for a trendy case, look no further than this blocky and rectangular one. The bright neon color makes the phone pop, and it also looks super unique. Aesthetics aside, it's also a fairly well-rounded case. The cutouts are all accurate, the buttons are great, and it comes with MagSafe support. We tested this case with the iPhone 14, but this one is for the iPhone 15 Pro Max.

Photograph: Apple

Apple AirTags are our favorite Bluetooth trackers for iPhone users. This isn't a crazy sale, but getting these in a bundle of four means you can keep track of every set of keys, your luggage for a trip, or even your kids' backpack all at once.

Those with an iPhone 14 or earlier can never have too many Lightning cables. These cables from Nomad are durable, available in different lengths, and come with the choice between USB-C and USB-A for the other end.

Retailer Sale Pages