Jamaica's first-ever victory on Canadian soil has seen the Reggae Boyz fight back to reach the CONCACAF Nations League semifinal and qualify for Copa America 2024.

A 3-2 win in the second leg at BMO Field in Toronto allowed Jamaica to progress on away goals after a 4-4 aggregate tie across the two legs.

After Canada opened the scoring through Alphonso Davies they held a comfortable 3-1 aggregate lead, but that advantage eroded in 15 second-half minutes as Jamaican striker Shamar Nicholson scored a brace, before Fulham attacker Bobby De Cordova-Reid converted the penalty that sealed progression.

Canada will now have to defeat Trinidad and Tobago in a one-off playoff in March to reach the Copa America 2024 tournament to be hosted in the U.S.

MORE: Highlights, recap of Canada's narrow win in the first leg

The Sporting News followed the Canada vs. Jamaica match live, providing score updates, commentary and highlights as they happened.

Canada vs. Jamaica result (full-time)

Score Aggregate Goal scorers Canada 2 4 Alphonso Davies (25)

Ismael Kone (69) Jamaica 3 4 Shamar Nicholson (63), (66)

Bobby De Cordova-Reid (78)

Kickoff: 7:30 p.m. local (7:30 p.m ET / 4:30 p.m. PT)

Location: BMO Field (Toronto, Canada)

Referee: Cesar Ramos (MEX)

Starting lineups:

Canada (4-4-2): Borjan - Laryea, Miller, Cornelius, Johnston (Millar 84') - Davies, Eustaquio (Russell-Rowe 89'), Kone (Kaye 74'), Buchanan (Hoilett 74') - Larin (Osorio 74'), David

Jamaica (4-2-3-1): Blake - Leigh (Gray 94'), Pinnock, Lowe, Lembikisa - Johnson, Latibeaudiere (Hector 46') - Bailey (Bernard 90'), Nicholson, De Cordova-Reid - Gray

It looked like it was going to be a comfortable night for Canada when Davies opened the scoring on 25 minutes after a lung-bursting run. The Bayern star saw his shot saved onto the crossbar before the ball spun in on the goal line.

This gave Canada a 3-1 aggregate lead and if it wasn't for Jamaican stopper Andre Blake, there could have easily been a couple more goals, making two great saves from Cyle Larin prior to Davies' opener.

However, the home side couldn't get the second goal and Jamaica grew in confidence, particularly after half-time.

In three second-half minutes, the tie was blown apart by two goals from Shamar Nicholson. A Canadian mistake handed the first to him on a plate before Demarai Gray's individual brilliance set up the second for a tap-in.

With the scoreline 2-1 on the night, the match was destined for extra time and penalties with a 3-3 aggregate.

But Jamaica could barely contemplate possible glory before Ismael Kone's header made it 2-2 on the night and gave Canada a single-goal aggregate advantage.

It appeared as if Canada had weathered the storm until first-leg hero Stephen Eustaquio's handball in the box allowed De Cordova-Reid to score the winning penalty with 12 minutes of regulation to play.

Jamaica managed to hold on through nine minutes of stoppage time, despite Gray being given a second yellow card for dissent on 84 minutes.

Canada vs Jamaica live updates, highlights, commentary

Fulltime: Canada 2-3 Jamaica, 4-4 aggregate

Jamaica's first-ever win on Canadian soil sees them advance by away goals to the CONCACAF Nations League semi-final and Copa America 2024. Extraordinary.

95 mins: Canada 2-3 Jamaica, 4-4 aggregate

Canada doing all the attacking but the Jamaican defence is well-organised. Hoilett blasts a shot well over the bar from outside the box.

90 mins: Canada 2-3 Jamaica, 4-4 aggregate

There will be nine minutes of added-on time. As it stands Jamaica are through on away goals. What a result this could be.

88 mins: Canada 2-3 Jamaica, 4-4 aggregate

Canada are dominating with their man advantage. David gets a free header in the six-yard box but it balloons over the bar. That was a decent chance.

84 mins: RED CARD (Demarai Gray) Canada 2-3 Jamaica, 4-4 aggregate

What a brain-fade by Jamaica's Gray. He gets two yellow cards in a minute and is dismissed. He booted the ball away for no reason. Clear second yellow card. Can they hold on now?

83 mins: Canada 2-3 Jamaica, 4-4 aggregate

What an incredible result this would be for Jamaica. Especially when Canada were cruising with a 3-1 aggregate lead until the 62nd minute.

78 mins: GOAL - Canada 2-3 Jamaica (Bobby De Cordova-Reid), 4-4 aggregate

Jamaica are going through as it stands on away goals. The Fulham attacker converts from the spot after a handball from Eustaquio and they are back in front on the night.

74 mins: Canada 2-2 Jamaica, 4-3 aggregate

Triple change for Canada. Junior Hoilett, Jonathan Osorio and Mark Kaye come on for Cyle Larin, Ismael Larin and Tajon Buchanan.

69 mins: GOAL - Canada 2-2 (Ismael Kone), 4-3 aggregate

Canada strike back. What an absolute rollercoaster. Davies floats in a deft cross and Kone's redirects it over Blake to send the crowd wild. Canada progressing on aggregate as we stand. It's on Jamaica now.

66 mins: GOAL - Canada 1-2 (Shamar Nicholson), 3-3 aggregate

WOW. Jamaica have hit the front and we are even on aggregate. What a counter-attack. Gray sprung clear down the left and his ball was prodded in by Nicholson. Incredible turnaround. As it stands, extra time is on the table.

62 mins: GOAL - Canada 1-1 Jamaica (Shamar Nicholson), 3-2 aggregate

THEY ARE BACK! Lowe takes the ball away from the Canadian defender. He feeds Nicholson in the box and the big striker smashes the ball home. We have a game now.

57 mins: Canada 1-0 Jamaica, 3-1 aggregate

The match has settled significantly after an early onslaught from Jamaica. They seem to be deflated by missing the chance to equalise this leg. They need to find something.

52 mins: Canada 1-0 Jamaica, 3-1 aggregate

Been a great start to the half by Jamaica. Constant pressure. Bailey looks dangerous. Canada needs to ride this storm.

48 mins: Canada 1-0 Jamaica, 3-1 aggregate

Bailey strikes the crossbar. The Aston Villa winger's shot hits the underside of the bar, bounces on the line and is cleared. Jamaica appeal in vain that the ball crossed the line. Ridiculously close to an equaliser.

Second half: Canada 1-0 Jamaica, 3-1 aggregate

We are underway in the second period. Can Jamaica strike early or will it be a Canadian cruise?

Halftime: Canada 1-0 Jamaica, 3-1 aggregate

It's been relatively smooth sailing for the Canadians with a single goal giving them a two-goal aggregate advantage. It could have been more goals if it wasn't for the heroics of Andre Blake. Jamaica are going to need a miracle in the second half. One goal could make the home side nervous.

45 mins: Canada 1-0 Jamaica, 3-1 aggregate

Two minutes of time added on.

45 mins: Canada 1-0 Jamaica, 3-1 aggregate

Wow. Oh so close for Jamaica. Gray cuts in from the left. Delivers a delicious ball through the six-yard box but Nicholson can't quite get his head on the ball. Inches away from connection there.

43 mins: Canada 1-0 Jamaica, 3-1 aggregate

Jamaica need to get to half-time. A second goal from Canada would end this tie. Davies threatens down the left once again but is flagged for offside.

37 mins: Canada 1-0 Jamaica, 3-1 aggregate

Eustaquiao swings the free kick into the back post and Miller just can't get his head to it. That was nearly a perfect delivery. It feels like a second goal is coming.

35 mins: Canada 1-0 Jamaica, 3-1 aggregate

Canada look dangerous on the break. Davies breaks down the left. He drills a low ball through the penalty box but it deflects off a defender's legs and bounces to safety. Jamaica have to be wary or this match will be over shortly.

31 mins: Canada 1-0 Jamaica, 3-1 aggregate

Gray plays the ball across the six-yard box, Bailey stabs the ball on goal but it's straight into the arms of Borjan. Jamaica's best chance so far.

29 mins: Canada 1-0 Jamaica, 3-1 aggregate

Nicholson finds himself through on goal for Jamaica after the lofted pass but he can only spoon a shot well wide. In any case, the offside flag is raised once the play is over.

25 mins: GOAL - Canada 1-0 Jamaica (Alphonso Davies), 3-1 aggregate

And there it is. Canada take the lead through Alphonso Davies. The Bayern star initially sprays the ball out wide to David, who plays an inch-perfect pass to Davies in the six-yard box. Blake blocked Davies' goal-bound effort but it looped up, hit the crossbar and then spun in, with Larin making sure he didn't touch the ball in case he was offside.

21 mins: Canada 0-0 Jamaica, 2-1 aggregate

Still goalless here at BMO Field. Canada look the more dangerous team with Jamaica threatening sporadically.

15 mins: Canada 0-0 Jamaica, 2-1 aggregate

Another save from Blake. This one might be the pick of the bunch. David pokes the ball to Larin in the six-yard box, but his low shot hits the body of Blake, who is in the right position once again. Only looks like a matter of time until Canada open the scoring.

12 mins: Canada 0-0 Jamaica, 2-1 aggregate

Buchanan plays a lovely ball over the top to Larin. The Canadian striker is through on goal. He muscles his way through but the shot is saved by Blake. Belatedly, the assistant referee raises his flag for offside on Larin's initial run.

9 mins: Canada 0-0 Jamaica, 2-1 aggregate

What a save from Andre Blake. Keeps Jamaica in touch in the tie. Buchanan played an enticing ball across the six-yard box, Lowe made a good connection with the slide at the back post but Blake got his body in the way. Impressive block.

7 mins: Canada 0-0 Jamaica, 2-1 aggregate

Johnson sends in a deep free kick for Jamaica but it's cleared for a corner. The first of the match. Johnson takes the corner but it's poorly delivered and Canada eventually clear.

4 mins: Canada 0-0 Jamaica, 2-1 aggregate

The home side has started confidently on the ball. It's going to be a tough task for Jamaica. They have never beaten Canada on the road.

Kickoff: Canada 0-0 Jamaica, 2-1 aggregate

We are off and running at BMO Field, Toronto. It's a cold, wet, windy night here.

Canada vs Jamaica: Pre-match commentary, analysis, stats, and more

10 min until kickoff: We are edging closer to the start of this match. Can Jamaica overturn a one-goal aggregate deficit on the road?

30 min until kickoff: Jamaica have selected their starting lineup, with Demarai Gray starting as striker in place of the injured Antonio. Leon Bailey and Bobby De Cordova-Reid start on the wings.

60 min until kickoff: The first XI has been released for Canada. Alphonso Davies and Jonathan David start for the home side.

90 min until kickoff: Jamaica will be without West Ham striker Michail Antonio, who suffered an ACL injury in the first leg.

2 hours until kickoff: Welcome to tonight's coverage of the CONCACAF Nations League quarterfinal between Canada and Jamaica in Toronto.

Under the lights 🏟️ pic.twitter.com/PQjPAvTCMD — Canada Soccer (@CanadaSoccerEN) November 21, 2023

What time does Canada vs Jamaica kick-off?

This CONCACAF Nations League quarterfinal second leg at BMO Stadium kicks off on Tuesday, November 21 at 7:30 p.m. local time in Toronto.

Here's how that time translates across the North American regions:

Kickoff time Eastern Time 7:30 p.m. Central Time 6:30 p.m. Mountain Time 5:30 p.m. Pacific Time 4:30 p.m.

Canada vs Jamaica projected lineups & team news

Canada interim head coach Mauro Biello deployed a 4-4-2 against Jamaica in the first leg on the road, but expect him to bring back their more-utilized three-defender system. That would allow them to rotate Kamal Miller out, who picked up a yellow card in the first leg, keeping him safe for the semifinals.

In would step Alistair Johnston and Derek Cornelius, with Steven Vitoria retained alongside them.

The only injury absence for Canada at the moment is striker Lucas Cavallini, who withdrew from the squad prior to the two matches, replaced by Jacen Russell-Rowe.

Canada projected starting lineup (3-5-2): Borjan (GK) — Cornelius, Vitoria, Johnston — Laryea, Eustaquio, Kone, Kaye, Davies — David, Larin.

Jamaica saw star striker Michail Antonio go down with a gutting ACL injury in the first leg, and he now begins a lengthy rehab process. West Ham are reportedly furious about how it was handled, angered by both the conditions of the pitch in Jamaica and the fact he played another 10 minutes after sustaining the injury.

Antonio was replaced by Salernitana striker Trivante Stewart, but he struggled and was himself withdrawn in the 81st minute. Demarai Gray could step in, but he himself is struggling for fitness, and while he remains with the team he was not part of the first leg matchday squad. Another option is Colorado Switchbacks forward Romario Williams, who scored 15 goals in 29 USL Championship matches this season.

Other injuries for Jamaica to contend with include Cory Burke and Amari'i Bell, who both miss out on this international window.

Jamaica projected starting lineup (4-3-3): Blake (GK) — Leigh, Bernard, Pinnock, Lembikisa — Latibeaudiere, D. Johnson, Bailey — Reid, Nicholson, R. Williams.

Canada vs Jamaica live stream, TV channel

TV channel Streaming Canada OneSoccer Fubo USA — Paramount+

English language broadcasts of the entire CONCACAF Nations League, with the exception of USMNT matches, can be found in the United States exclusively on CBS streaming service Paramount+.

In Canada, the match can be found on OneSoccer, which is available to stream on Fubo.