The 49ers made the biggest move ahead of the 2022 NFL trade deadline when they acquired running back Christian McCaffrey from the Panthers. They once again made a splash ahead of the 2023 trade deadline when they traded for Commanders pass rusher Chase Young.

Young was among the most notable players dealt ahead of the 2023 trade deadline. The No. 2 pick in the 2020 NFL Draft is in the midst of a breakout season, totaling five sacks in eight games and generating a solid 18 pressures while getting into the backfield often for the Commanders.

But as Washington jettisoned its top two defensive ends, Young and Montez Sweat, the 49ers found themselves positioned to pounce. They traded a 2024 third-round pick to get the talented defender and reunite him with his college teammate and fellow No. 2 pick, Nick Bosa.

Young should provide a boost to a 49ers defense that ranks just 22nd this season in sacks per game at 2.3. But many are wondering whether Young will end up being a rental for the 49ers or more of a long-term investment.

That will all depend on how San Francisco manages its salary cap in 2024.

MORE DEADLINE: Live tracker | Grading every trade

On the surface, it may look hard for the 49ers to re-sign Young long-term; in reality, the team has more flexibility to do so than it would initially appear. Here's why.

49ers cap space 2024

As it stands, the 49ers don't project to have much cap space in 2024. In fact, OverTheCap lists San Francisco as having just $1,479,772 in available space. That is good for the seventh-least in the NFL.

That said, the 49ers are equipped to increase their cap space with relative ease. How? Well, they have at least one player on their roster, Randy Gregory, who has an eight-digit salary but doesn't have any guaranteed money left on his deal. That means that the 49ers could release him without taking a dead-cap hit, which is a financial term for when a player no longer on the roster is still owed guaranteed money; that would open up $14 million more in cap space.

Elsewhere, the team has 10 other players on the active roster set to have cap hits of at least $14.1 million who could restructure or extend their contracts.

When NFL teams restructure contracts, they typically take a player's base salary — which is accounted for in a one-year duration — and turn it into some sort of signing bonus. That bonus is allowed to be prorated over the duration of the contract, so it spreads what would be a high, one-year cost out into a moderate cost over several years.

Typically, players who have their contracts restructured have high cap hits and high base salaries. So, in looking at the 49ers' highest-paid players for 2024, there are a few options for restructures, as you can see below.

Player 2024 cap hit Base salary Dead cap hit Trent Williams $31.7 million $20.1 million $29.9 million Arik Armstead $28.6 million $17.4 million $25.9 million Deebo Samuel $28.6 million $21 million $26.5 million Fred Warner $24.5 million $15.3 million $25.6 million George Kittle $22 million $13.4 million $18.9 million Charvarius Ward $17.9 million $12.6 million $17.2 million Javon Hargrave $15.5 million $8.9 million $33.4 million Nick Bosa $14.6 million $1.1 million $76.5 million Brandon Aiyuk $14.1 million $14.1 million $14.1 million Christian McCaffrey $14.1 million $11.8 million $8.6 million

So, if any of Williams, Armstead, Samuel, Kittle or Warner were to restructure their contracts or if a player like Aiyuk got an extension, that would push some of the 49ers' cap hits into future years. That could prove a worthwhile move if it allows for the team to keep Young and keep its Super Bowl window open with the ultra-cheap Brock Purdy at quarterback.

Of course, the team could also release some of its players, like Gregory, to open up space. It doesn't seem likely that any of the players listed above would be cut or traded as all are owed hefty guarantees and come with big dead-cap hits; but the 49ers could trim from the margins of the roster if they need just a bit more cap space to keep Young around.

But a restructuring of contracts will almost certainly happen in San Francisco during the offseason; it's just a matter of which and how many players will get that treatment and whether those funds will be allocated to Young or other portions of the roster.

IYER: Grading the Chase Young to the 49ers trade

Chase Young contract projection

Assessing how San Francisco can try to keep Young also includes looking at what Young's value might be on the open market. It's likely that the 24-year-old will get a large payday as a free agent, but it's just a matter of how big it will be.

Spotrac.com projects that Young should make about $17.8 million annually on a four-year deal. However, that seems a bit light considering that it includes a couple of interior defensive linemen — Dre'Mont Jones and Zach Allen — among his closest comparisons.

It seems more likely that Young will be paid to his potential as well, considering that he missed a lot of time in Years 2 and 3 with injuries. Thus, he may end up being highly paid in terms of average annual value (AAV) but he may see lower-end guarantees.

At the end of the day, however, the deal that seems most likely to suit him is one similar to the extension that the Packers gave Rashan Gary.

Gary is set to have an AAV of $24 million over the duration of that contract while making $96 million over four years. However, only $34.6 million of that deal is guaranteed, as Gary was inconsistent to start his career and dealt with a torn ACL in 2022.

Rashan Gary contract value

Length 4 years Total value $96 million AAV $24 million Guarantees $34.6 million

Young could hypothetically crack $100 million if he's allowed to hit the open market, but the Gary deal projection seems like a sensible ballpark for now.

Of course, the 49ers could also try to slap him with the franchise tag if they're worried about paying him and Bosa big bucks long-term. That was worth just under $20 million last season, so that may look like San Francisco's best avenue toward keeping its Super Bowl window ajar.

However, one-year deals are often complicated to fit into smaller amounts of salary cap space, so the 49ers would likely prefer to get a long-term agreement in place with Young to keep him. At the end of the day, franchising him may not be worth the hassle — even if he is easily the team's best free agent in 2024.

MORE: Why the 49ers traded for Chase Young, explained

49ers free agents 2024

Young's quest to earn a deal with the 49ers could be aided by the fact that they don't have many key players set to be free agents in 2024.

As it stands, only 15 other 49ers are set to be free agents in 2024. Just two of them, Tashaun Gipson and Clelin Ferrell, are full-time starters; and Young eventually figures to take over as starter for Ferrell.

Below is the full list of 49ers free agents for the 2024 offseason.

Brandon Allen, QB

Oren Burks, LB

Sam Darnold, QB

Ross Dwelley, TE

Jon Feliciano, C

Clelin Ferrell, EDGE

Demetrius Flanagan-Fowles, LB

Tashaun Gipson, S

Kevin Givens, DT

Jauan Jennings, WR

Javon Kinlaw, DT

Ray-Ray McCloud, WR

Terrance Mitchell, CB

Matt Pryor, OT

Charlie Woerner, TE

Chase Young, EDGE

So, while the 49ers will have some key role players like Sam Darnold, Jauan Jennings and Oren Burks set to get new deals, the team's free-agent class is short on high-end talent. That will make it easier for them to focus on keeping Young if they so desire.

As such, fans should view his acquisition as more of an audition to remain with the 49ers than a pure rental.