Oct 8th, 2023

Oct 8th, 2023

S﻿AINT-ETIENNE: The Wallabies will have to endure a more tortuous Sunday night watch than even the worst rom com as their Rugby World Cup fate is decided by Fiji and Portugal in Toulouse.

Australia will gather together in their plush Saint-Galmier hotel at 9pm local time (6am Monday AEDT) to view what will almost certainly be their World Cup execution.

The Wallabies are currently sitting second in Pool C but a single bonus point would be enough for Fiji to leapfrog them and advance to the quarter-finals in Marseille.

Watch all the action from Rugby World Cup 2023 on the home of rugby, Stan Sport. Every match ad free, live and on demand in 4K UHD

The most likely outcome is that Fiji wins easily and the Wallabies will be pushing confirm on their off-season holiday plans.﻿

"We've only got ourselves to blame, we put ourselves in this position," Wallabies centre Samu Kerevi, who was born in Fiji, said after an open training session in front of 1000 keen locals at the Andrezieux-Boutheon rugby club on Saturday.

"We'll sit down as a team and watch together on Sunday night. I think we understand the situation ... our results and the way we played, we put ourselves in this position. So the team understands that and we have our belief in anything's possible at the World Cup.

READ MORE: ﻿'Blame myself': Eddie reveals great World Cup regret

READ MORE: Referee ripped after Junior Paulo's dominant KO

LIVE COVERAGE: All the latest updates from Bathurst 1000

Mark Nawaqanitawase runs the ball during a Wallabies training session at Stade Roger Baudras. (Getty)

"But also, we understand how strong Fiji is. And we're proud for them as a proud nation. For myself, I'll be proud of it either way it goes. We'll be ready if it comes our way."

Kerevi was photographed holding his face in disbelief in one of the defining images of the World Cup ﻿after the Wallabies were pumped 40-6 by Wales in Lyon.

The 30-year-old is undoubtedly one of the world's finest centres in peak form but injuries conspired to limit his potential in France.﻿

Samu Kerevi of Australia reacts after the record loss at the Rugby World Cup. (Getty)

"I don't think I performed where I wanted to perform at a World Cup," Kerevi said.

"I hold myself to high standards and I just felt like I could have helped the team more in certain aspects ... I've been out of the game for nine months but I felt good coming into it ... I just felt like I was blowing a bit, but felt good towards the back end of a couple of games. But again, it's not where I want my performance to be.

Despite being dropped for Lalakai Foketi for the pool win against Portugal, Kerevi said he had no thoughts of following fellow Fijian-Wallaby ﻿Marika Koroibete into international retirement.

NEW PODCAST! Michael Atkinson and Sam Worthington preview a thrilling final round of pool games to decide the quarter-finalists at the Rugby World Cup in France﻿

He wanted to regain form at club level ﻿with Urayasu D-Rocks but his hand remained up for Test selection.

"I chose to leave Australian shores and understand the ruling around that and what it holds," he said.

"I've got to perform for my club first and if you get the call up, you get the call up. If you don't, I'll take my three months break and enjoy that."

Kerevi is an unabashed Jones fan.

Eddie Jones with fans during a Wallabies training session at Stade Roger Baudras. (Getty)

"He's up at 4am working hard. We catch him in the gym, he's working hard and I swear he doesn't even sleep. Seriously, the amount of time he puts into effort, into his staff, into the players, always has time for us ... and I think fans don't see that," he said.

"At the end of the day, we didn't get the results, you know, we didn't perform the way we wanted to as a team and it's not on Eddie - it's on all of us.

"So I understand what the fans feel and they're just passionate and it's awesome to have that. But no-one realises what goes on inside. No-one realises the things that we're working on tirelessly, to work hard, but especially him and the staff, f--ing work so hard, bro.

Samu Kerevi during a Wallabies training session at Stade Roger Baudras. (Getty)

"They're away from families, they're sacrificing as well and … I don't read into the comment stuff, but the young boys, I hear a lot that's going on, social media and stuff. But I don't think people really understand demons, everyone's fights in between.

"Eddie's a human as well and at the end of the day it's a results-driven sport, you know, we need results to get that. But he's committed to us and we love that about him.

"He hasn't thought about going home, he's thought about how we can contribute best and that's what we've done these last three days. I feel for him, you know, like as a head coach, you maybe can't show that side of himself.

Eddie Jones and Will Skelton talk at Stade Roger Baudras. (Getty)

"But he's been so strong for us and gives us strength to just be positive. And again, we put ourselves in this situation."

Wide World of Sports also asked Kerevi to deliver a message to disillusioned Wallabies fans.﻿

"I think at home there's so many sports going on and some saying rugby's dying, but rugby's massive here overseas," he said.

"Last week 45,000 fans (versus Portugal), last night (60,000 in Lyon). Rugby's such a small aspect in terms of Australians but our fans have turned up here, we've seen them and spoken to them and their unconditional love for us, the fact that they came 20,000km to get here and support us, has been awesome.

"My message is just to understand that we're working extremely hard, there's no stone unturned, especially the youth in this team, to leave the jersey in a better place and just to stick with us.

"I know the results haven't been coming our way the last couple of years but when it does turn, that's what we're building towards.﻿"