Jürgen Klopp’s prediction that Liverpool would not “fly” through the Europa League group stage amounts to their only mis-step so far. Qualification for the knockout phase is already close at hand with the procession continuing against Toulouse.

Klopp could ring the changes before Nottingham Forest’s Premier League visit on Sunday, give a full debut to 19-year-old left-back Luke Chambers, first Liverpool outings to Calum Scanlon and James McConnell, and still enjoy a fluent, dominant display. It was polished by goals from Diogo Jota, Wataru Endo, Darwin Núñez, the highly impressive Ryan Gravenberch and Mohamed Salah. Salah’s strike with the final kick of the game was his 43rd European goal for Liverpool and took him above Thierry Henry as the most prolific goalscorer for an English club in European competition.

“I think I said it before – it is really easy to fall in love with this team, there is so much excitement,” said the Liverpool manager after a seventh win in seven home matches this season. “We have to make massive steps, we have to grow, but a lot of signs are really positive and how the team interacts with each other is really nice.”

Rivalry was forgotten and friendship remembered as Liverpool paid a warm tribute before kick-off to Bill Kenwright, the Everton chairman who died on Monday. The Hollies’ He Ain’t Heavy, He’s My Brother – the song Kenwright chose for a Hillsborough tribute at Goodison Park and became a fund-raising single for the justice campaign – was played to mass applause from the Liverpool fans inside Anfield. Kenwright’s powerful speech at the Hillsborough memorial service in 2013 and lasting support for the bereaved families will not be forgotten across Stanley Park.

Liverpool have won all three group games with something to spare, underlining why they are favourites for this season’s competition, but the visit of French Cup winners Toulouse proved the most entertaining contest so far. Granted, Toulouse’s terrible defending was a contributory factor but so too was the marauding midfield play of Gravenberch and Liverpool’s quality in front of goal.

The hosts swept into an early lead when Jota collected a Joe Gomez interception, spun away from Cristian Cásseres and Niklas Schmidt, breezed past a nonexistent challenge from Logan Costa and beat goalkeeper Guillaume Restes with a confident finish.

Diogo Jota slots the ball past Guillaume Restes to give Liverpool an early lead at Anfield. Photograph: David Blunsden/Action Plus/Shutterstock

The travelling Toulouse contingent were in uproar as their side stunned Anfield with a fine equaliser. Aron Dønnum dissected the Liverpool defence with a first time ball to Thijs Dallinga, who kept his cool on the long run towards Caoimhín Kelleher’s goal and drilled his shot beyond the stand-in keeper.

More pedestrian defending allowed Liverpool to regain the lead via the first goal of Endo’s Anfield career. Harvey Elliott played a short corner to Curtis Jones, he found Trent Alexander-Arnold, and the Japan international guided the captain’s cross beyond the Toulouse keeper with a precise header. The towering Moussa Diarra epitomised Toulouse’s defending around the goal by standing back to admire Endo as he headed home.

Quick Guide Europa Conference League: Villa and Faroe Islanders soar Show Ollie Watkins continued his red-hot form as Aston Villa cruised to a statement 4-1 win at AZ Alkmaar in the Europa Conference League. The striker netted his 10th goal of the season and fourth in Europe this season on Thursday. Leon Bailey and Youri Tielemans – his first for Villa – put them in control in AZ Stadium after less than 25 minutes. Vangelis Pavlidis wasted the hosts' best chances but Watkins and John McGinn added more goals after the break in the Netherlands before Ibrahim Sadiq grabbed a consolation. It was the second time in two games Villa had scored four after their 4-1 Premier League win over West Ham on Sunday. Ki Klaksvik became the first Faroe Islands club to win in the group stages of a European competition with a stunning 3-0 success againt Olimpija Ljubljana. Rene Joensen, Pall Klettskard and Jakup Andreasen were the heroes at at the 6,500 capacity Torsvollur national stadium. Aberdeen's hopes of navigating a route through the Conference League group stage suffered a major blow as they threw away a two-goal lead to lose 3-2 against PAOK Salonika on a rollercoaster night at Pittodrie. Having weathered heavy pressure in a goalless first half, Barry Robson's men found themselves two goals to the good by the hour mark thanks to Bojan Miovski and Dante Polvara. But a stunning comeback saw the Greek side take three points after goals from substitutes Kiril Despodov and captain Vieirinha, and a stoppage-time penalty, awarded after a VAR check, from Stefan Schwab. Was this helpful? Thank you for your feedback.

It was soon three when Gravenberch surged through the Toulouse midfield and found Jones. The midfielder’s shot was blocked by Mikkel Desler but rebounded off Jones into the path of Núñez, who lashed a thumping finish into the roof of Restes’ net.

The second half was memorable mainly for misses. Gabriel Suazo squandered a glorious chance to haul Toulouse back into the contest when Kelleher sliced a clearance into the path of Dallinga. The goalscorer squared for Suazo who had a free shot on a goal with only Alexander-Arnold standing in it. To his despair, he managed to find the defender’s thigh.

Not to be outdone, Núñez failed to complete what should have been a stunning individual goal when he left Rasmus Nicolaisen floundering with a superb footwork and rounded the Toulouse goalkeeper. The Uruguay international struck a post instead of the open goal and was on his knees in disbelief when Gravenberch finished the job from the rebound. Salah came off the bench to end the rout and create yet more history when scoring off the underside of the bar.