If you tuned into "Sunday Night Football" expecting to see some offense, you tuned in on the wrong weekend.

The Jets and Raiders were locked into an old-school, defense-heavy primetime clash that featured nothing but six field goals through the first three quarters of the game. It wasn't until 50 seconds into the fourth quarter that Las Vegas finally picked up the first touchdown, with Michael Mayer making a leaping grab in the end zone to put the Raiders up 16-9.

In such a low-scoring game, that touchdown felt, even as early as it was, that it could be a game-winner. And indeed, it was as the Raiders held the Jets to just a field goal the rest of the game and picked off Zach Wilson late to stymy New York in a 16-12 win.

MORE: What to know about Raiders 'SNF' hero Robert Spillane

It wasn't exactly a quarterback showdown that many might have expected in the preseason when this game appeared to be Aaron Rodgers vs. Jimmy Garoppolo. Instead, Wilson went 23-for-39 with 263 yards, no touchdowns and a pick (rushing four times for 54 yards) while Aidan O'Connell completed 16-of-27 passes for 153 yards, a touchdown and an interception.

The Raiders largely turned to running back Josh Jacobs, who set season-best marks with 27 carries for 116 yards, while the Jets' running back duo of Breece Hall and Dalvin Cook was held to just 17 rushes for 54 yards.

The win for the Raiders already marks their second in as many games since the firing of Josh McDaniels, with interim coach Antonio Pierce getting off to an undefeated 2-0 start to his career. It also vaults the Raiders into a deep AFC playoff race, with Las Vegas joining the now five AFC wild-card contenders with at least five wins.

For the Jets, it marked a second straight game without a touchdown, and gives them their second consecutive loss before hitting the road to face the Bills in Week 11.

MORE: Revisiting Antonio Pierce's NFL playing career

Sporting News tracked all the scores and highlights from Jets vs. Raiders on "Sunday Night Football." Check out all of the key moments you might have missed.

Jets vs. Raiders final score

1 2 3 4 F Jets 6 3 0 3 12 Raiders 3 3 3 7 16

Jets vs. Raiders results, highlights from 'Sunday Night Football'

(All times Eastern)

Fourth quarter

11:26 p.m.: Wilson's final pass after being chased out of the pocket is batted down, and the Raiders hang on to win 16-12.

11:24 p.m.: It's time for Hail Marys, and the first to Gipson sails out of bounds. With five seconds left, the Raiders call their second timeout.

11:22 p.m.: Wilson spikes the first pass with no one open, then connects with Conklin on a dump-off for nine yards. He goes back to Conklin with the clock rolling, and the tight end makes an impressive leaping grab at the Raiders' 45. The Jets use their last timeout with 12 seconds left.

A big pass to Tyler Conklin gets the Jets into opposing territory



📺: #NYJvsLV on NBC

📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/lfCP1NFAnO pic.twitter.com/oW0Nb8335s — NFL (@NFL) November 13, 2023

11:20 p.m.: Even after backing up five yards, Cole still boots the ball too far. He tries to angle it toward the sideline, and it bounces into the end zone for a touchback. Jets will get the ball at the 20 with 53 seconds left.

11:19 p.m.: Raiders opt to trust O'Connell to put the game away and have him attempt a pass, but his pass attempt to Mayer is batted down by Jermaine Johnson. That saves the Jets a timeout and means they will get the ball back after a punt. Raiders take a delay of game penalty before the kick.

11:18 p.m.: Jacobs is stuffed for no gain, and the Jets use their second timeout. 1:05 left, and the Raiders facing a pivotal third-and-5.

11:17 p.m.: Jacobs gets five, and the Jets call a quick timeout.

11:16 p.m.: Hall can only get a pair of yards on a check down to the right out to the 20. The next play, Wilson tries to get the ball out to Lazard and is picked off by Robert Spillane, who returns the ball out to the Raiders' 40. With 1:14 and the Jets having three timeouts, this one's all but over.

11:11 p.m.: Wilson misses Lazard over the middle, then goes back to Conklin, who makes the low catch two yards shy of the first down marker. Wilson connects with Wilson again for six up to the 22 to bring up a fresh set of downs and the two-minute warning.

Garrett Wilson bobbled it but still hung on for the first down



📺: #NYJvsLV on NBC

📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/lfCP1NFAnO pic.twitter.com/pTmdt9OLNK — NFL (@NFL) November 13, 2023

11:10 p.m.: The drive stays alive as Wilson dumps the ball off to Conklin, who stretches across for the first down at the 36.

11:08 p.m.: Uzomah makes a strong effort catching a pass, staying up after a big hit and powering his way up six yards. Play stops for an injury to Jakorian Bennett. Wilson tries a deep shot toward the end zone to Garrett Wilson, but in double coverage, the pass is broken up.

11:07 p.m.: New York keeps moving down the field, as after a three-yard catch from Garrett Wilson, Hall catches a quick pass underneath, makes some defenders miss and takes it up 10 yards to the Raiders 46.

11:06 p.m.: The call on the field stands, and the Jets immediately work to pay off the turnover as Zach Wilson starts the drive with a nice throw across the middle of the field to Lazard for 17 yards to the Jets 41.

11:03 p.m.: Costly turnover for the Raiders. Just as it felt the Raiders were inching toward putting the game away, Jacobs loses a fumble at the Jets' 25, and it's recovered by Ashtyn Davis. The turnover is being reviewed, and would be a massive swing if it stands.

Jamien Sherwood forces the fumble and the Jets take over!



📺: #NYJvsLV on NBC

📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/lfCP1NFAnO pic.twitter.com/g9gWv0UKIT — NFL (@NFL) November 13, 2023

11:01 p.m.: Zamir White gets his first carry of the day and appears to lose the football after gaining five, but the Raiders recover it. Jacobs gets the next handoff and appeared to be bottled up, but the line pushes him ahead for seven yards for a first down up to the Jets 29. Las Vegas grinding away the clock now with 6:14 left to play.

11 p.m.: Gutsy call by Pierce and the Raiders, who fake a sneak and instead hand the ball off to Carter, who races around the left end and speeds past the defense for 15 yards and a first down up to the Jets 41.

15 yards on 4th and inches. That equals a first down.



📺: #NYJvsLV on NBC

📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/lfCP1NFAnO pic.twitter.com/ZJPCx6eHpq — NFL (@NFL) November 13, 2023

10:58 p.m.: Facing a third-and-8, O'Connell fires the ball out to Austin Hooper, who is brought down just shy of the first down. The Raiders will have a decision to make on a fourth-and-1 from the Las Vegas 44. C.J. Mosley was injured on the play, and has to come off the field.

10:56 p.m.: O'Connell tries a deep shot to Adams to start the drive, but the star receiver is double-covered. Jacobs gets Las Vegas back on schedule by racing his way up the middle for nine yards to set up a third-and-1, just stumbling short. He picks up that yard on a carry the next play to keep the chains moving.

10:54 p.m.: Raiders will start at the 25 with 11:58 to play.

10:51 p.m. Jets scoring play: The Jets offense stalls after a throw from Garrett Wilson on a trick play to Lazard misses, then a low throw from Zach Wilson to Cook that's missed as well. Wilson escapes pressure from the Raiders and manages a yard, but the call is to Zuerlein to boot the field goal. Raiders 16, Jets 12

10:48 p.m.: Trading explosive plays now. First Jacobs with the big run, now Hall catches a screen pass, and he bursts down the left sideline for 35 yards to the Las Vegas 40. Then Garrett Wilson makes a wide-open grab for 13 to the Raiders' 28.

Breece Hall just turned the screen pass into a 35-yard gain 😳



📺: #NYJvsLV on NBC

📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/lfCP1NFAnO pic.twitter.com/aCOdKjJEkr — NFL (@NFL) November 13, 2023

10:47 p.m.: Jets start at the 25.

10:45 p.m. Raiders scoring play: O'Connell fakes a sweep to Jacobs and throws a touchdown pass to a leaping Mayer in the end zone. First touchdown of the game comes with 14:10 left. Raiders 16, Jets 9

Third quarter

10:41 p.m.: Mayer drops a pass on first down, then Jacobs explodes down the field, racing up 40 yards to the Jets' 13. Carter punches out the football at the end of the run, but it rolls harmlessly out of bounds. Jacobs takes the next carry for five yards to wind down the third quarter with the Raiders now at the Jets' 8.

10:35 p.m.: Wilson to Wilson gains five to start the drive, but Zach is brought down the next play on a sack and the ball got loose. Mekhi Becton jumps on the ball to avoid disaster. Wilson tries to get the first down the next play with a deep shot to Taylor down the middle but it sails well over his head. New York punts, and Carter returns the ball 10 yards to the Raiders' 46 as Las Vegas again gets favorable field position to start a drive.

10:34 p.m.: Gipson attempts a kickoff return, but is brought down at the Jets 13 for a short return.

10:29 p.m. Raiders scoring play: Offense keeps trying to go through Jacobs, with him getting blown up for a loss of four before getting five yards on a toss to the right. But O'Connell way overthrows Adams, and the Raiders have to settle for the 40-yard field goal to tie the game with 2:36 left in the third quarter. Adams was furious there wasn't a penalty. All kicks so far tonight. Jets 9, Raiders 9

10:27 p.m.: O'Connell rifles a quick pass out to Hunter Renfrow, who races up and gets near the line of scrimmage but is just inches shy of the line. The Raiders opt to go for it and hand the ball to Jacobs, who finds a hole on the right side and gets the necessary yardage to the Jets 23 for the first.

10:26 p.m.: For the second time today, O'Connell takes a bad sack out to the Jets 42 that takes the Raiders out of field-goal range, but Jacobs catches a short pass and runs it up — ruled a carry since it was a lateral — for 12 yards to bring up a much more manageable third-and-6.

10:25 p.m.: Following a rush of no gain by Jacobs, Meyers makes a catch in front of a few defenders and makes them miss to pick up eight yards. O'Connell then goes with a pop pass to Jacobs, who bursts to the right sideline for three yards and the first down to the Jets 34.

10:19 p.m.: Quick three-and-out by the Jets, as Wilson steps up and fires an incompletion and Hall is brought down for a loss of a yard by Butler. After a false start to make it third-and-16, Wilson escapes out on the right side and manages to get 13 yards before stumbling and fall three shy of the first. Las Vegas gets an excellent return by Carter along the sideline, as he takes the punt from the Raiders 23 up to the Jets 46 for a 31-yard return.

10:14 p.m.: O'Connell tries to throw a tight end screen to Mayer, but has to spike it as his tight end was well contained. Gipson returns the punt five yards up to the Jets' 15 as the Jets prepare for their next drive.

10:11 p.m.: Impressive solo tackle by Quinnen Williams getting to Jacobs almost as soon as he gets the handoff in the backfield for a loss of three. Tre Tucker gets an end-around for nine yards to set up a much more manageable third-and-4. O'Connell scrambles for five to the left and gets the yardage, but for once, a penalty goes against the Raiders as a holding flag brings up a third-and-14 for the Raiders.

10:05 p.m.: Conklin gets a nice reception that would have brought up a fourth-and-4. The Jets are flagged for holding, which is accepted by the Raiders rather than taking the punt. Wilson gets a quick pass out to Malik Taylor for six yards, and now the Jets will punt. DeAndre Carter returns the punt six yards from the Raiders' 25 to 31, where Las Vegas will start its first drive of the second half.

10:04 p.m.: A low incompletion by Wilson to Wilson and a pickup of just two from Hall gets the Jets' drive off to a slow start. Wilson appeared to get a first down with a throw out to Gipson for 12 yards, but Carter is flagged for a chop block that vaults the Jets back to a third-and-21 at their own 14. Another rough penalty for the Jets, who now have six penalties for 68 yards.

10:02 p.m.: The Jets will begin the second half from their own 25 on a touchback.

Second quarter

9:45 p.m. Raiders scoring play: O'Connell misses Adams on back-to-back passes, and the Raiders opt to turn the ball to Jacobs for a yard before using their final timeout. Daniel Carlson drills the 54-yard field goal to make this a three-point game at the end of the first half. Jets 9, Raiders 6

9:43 p.m.: This time, a brutal Jets penalty on defense. O'Connell gets a pass out to Mayer for five yards, but Bryce Huff is flagged for roughing the passer that moves the Raiders all the way to the Jets 37 with 21 seconds.

9:42 p.m.: Raiders start a bit conservative with a run of six by Jacobs before O'Connell gets a quick pass out to Adams on the left side, giving the receiver space to pick up nine yards before going out of bounds to stop the clock with 32 seconds left in the half. He then dumps off a quick pass to Jacobs, who picks up eight before going out and stopping the clock at 26 seconds.

9:39 p.m.: Conklin makes a catch up the middle for eight yards, but on the next play, Wilson tries to scramble out of the pocket and has to run for a loss of a yard. Wilson then fires incomplete to Allen Lazard, who was racing down the left sideline. Jets punt the ball into the end zone for a touchback.

9:38 p.m.: Following a run of seven by Hall, Zach Wilson misses a pass attempt out to Garrett Wilson. Then the QB scrambles out to his left and takes off down the left sideline for 20 yards to the Jets' 41. He's now the team's leading rusher with two carries for 40 yards on the ground.

9:36 p.m.: Jets take the fair catch at their own 14. They've got 1:52 to make something happen.

9:34 p.m.: A pair of promising passing plays go for naught. Jakobi Meyers makes a few defenders miss on a nice catch for 13 yards, then O'Connell fires a strike to Adams for a pickup of 18 yards. But the Jets' pass-rush finally gets home as O'Connell is sacked, pressured into throwing out of bounds then sacked again. Raiders pushed from the New York 26 all the way back to the Jets' 46, and will now likely have to punt coming out of the two-minute warning.

9:29 p.m.: Jacobs came into the drive with just three total carries, but he's now carried it five straight times for 20 yards. O'Connell then picks up the third-and-1 by sneaking it for three yards.

9:27 p.m.: Three straight runs by Jacobs, punctuated by an impressive, shifty, five-yard run gets the Raiders the first down up to the Las Vegas 31.

9:22 p.m.: Needing only a yard, the Jets' backs come up short on both attempts, with Cook and Hall both being bottled up at the line of scrimmage for no gain. Jets decide to punt the ball from their own 38, and it goes into the end zone for a touchback. Raiders back on offense from their own 20 with 7:18 left in the half.

9:20 p.m.: Cook bounces out to the right, and gets out to the 29 for a pickup of 10. He follows that up by speeding to the left and racing up for nine yards to the Jets' 38 before he's brought down by Crosby.

9:16 p.m.: A pair of runs by Jacobs nets the Raiders just one yard, and O'Connell's deep shot to Adams is well past his intended target. The Raiders go three-and-out, and after an out-of-bounds punt from AJ Cole, the Jets will start at their own 19.

9:15 p.m.: Raiders will start from their own 25.

9:15 p.m.: Robertson has been ruled out with a concussion, per the team.

9:12 p.m. Jets scoring play: Wilson attempts a checkdown to Michael Carter, but the ball is tipped by Adam Butler. New York once again has to settle for a field goal. Jets 9, Raiders 3

9:09 p.m.: Hall runs for a yard, then is stuffed for no gain trying to get to the outside by Crosby. The Jets use their first timeout before the third-and-goal play from Las Vegas' 12-yard line.

9:08 p.m.: Stop if you've heard this before: good Jets play, bad Jets penalty. Hall ran for three yards up the middle for a touchdown, but Uzomah was flagged for holding a second time as he tried to block Maxx Crosby and free up space for Hall along the right side. Now a first-and-goal from the Raiders 13.

9:06 p.m.: Garrett Wilson makes a leaping grab for seven yards before Zach Wilson makes a stellar run along the right sideline. He initially was ruled to be in the end zone, but review confirmed he stepped out at the 3-yard line, making it a 20-yard run from the QB. First-and-goal now for the Jets.

Stepped out at the 3, but Zach Wilson used his legs to get near the end zone 💨



📺: #NYJvsLV on NBC

📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/lfCP1NFAnO pic.twitter.com/DZKQE2yZvd — NFL (@NFL) November 13, 2023

9:05 p.m.: Raiders corner Amik Robertson had to be helped off the field and walked to the sideline. Appeared to be in the fencing response while on the ground.

9:02 p.m.: Another big Jets play overturned by a penalty. Hall appeared to have the first down for 11 yards, but Laken Tomlinson is flagged for holding. Jets will face a second-and-19.

First quarter

8:58 p.m.: Hall picks up a yard to bring the quarter to an end.

8:56 p.m.: O'Connell goes from nearly losing a fumble to throwing an interception right at Jordan Whitehead, who returns the pick out to the Raiders' 26. Raiders are challenging the interception, but since all turnovers are reviewed, their timeout is used.

8:55 p.m.: Near-disaster to start the drive for the Raiders, as O'Connell muffs the snap under center. He falls on the ball to limit it to just a one-yard loss.

8:54 p.m.: Raiders will start from their own 25 after a touchback.

8:51 p.m. Jets scoring play: Wilson threads the needle out to Garrett Wilson, but the receiver can't hang on. Tyler Conklin makes a quick grab for five yards, but the Jets again have to settle for three from Zuerlein. Jets 6, Raiders 3

8:49 p.m.: Now, Garrett Wilson's getting involved in the running game, taking an end around for 11 yards. However, C.J. Uzomah is called for holding that moves the play back to a second-and-18.

8:47 p.m.: Garrett Wilson gets back into the passing game, first catching a quick pass on the outside for five yards, then taking a short pass from Wilson up eight yards to the Raiders' 32 for another first down.

8:45 p.m.: After a pair of runs that picked up six yards from Hall, Wilson throws a deep pass out to Gipson down the right sideline, picking up 24 yards to the Raiders' 45. Jets again using big strikes to move down the field.

8:44 p.m.: Jets will start their second drive at their own 25 with 6:15 to go in the first quarter.

8:39 p.m. Raiders scoring play: That penalty winds up stunting the drive. Adams makes an impressive, one-handed grab for eight yards and Michael Mayer picks up seven on a grab over the middle, but he's stopped just short. The Raiders also settle for a field goal, this one from 41 yards out to even the game. Jets 3, Raiders 3

8:38 p.m.: Right after the big play, Adams is flagged for offensive pass interference on a swing pass to Jacobs. That will move the Raiders back, and bring up a first-and-20.

8:37 p.m.: Josh Jacobs' first carry is stuffed for only two. But the first big connection between O'Connell and Adams vaults the Raiders up to the Jets' 31 for 42 yards on a nice deep pass over the middle of the field.

Aidan O'Connell stumbled and still found Davante for 42 yards



📺: #NYJvsLV on NBC

📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/lfCP1NFAnO pic.twitter.com/qc06xFF0aa — NFL (@NFL) November 13, 2023

8:35 p.m.: DeAndre Carter returns the kickoff to the Raiders' 25 to start the drive.

8:31 p.m. Jets scoring play: Dalvin Cook has an impressive seven-yard run, but on third down, Wilson's quick pass to Gipson is dropped. The Jets have to settle for three from Greg Zuerlein. Jets 3, Raiders 0

8:30 p.m.: Odd play after the explosive. Wilson is brought down, and as he's going down, he tries to flip the ball out. It initially looked like it could've been a fumble, but it is called for intentional grounding. That will bring up a second-and-20 for New York.

8:29 p.m.: On a play action, the Wilson-Wilson connection is an explosive one, as the receiver catches a hard pass over the middle and streaks down the right sideline before finally being brought down at the Raiders' 26 for a gain of 41.

Plenty of room to run after the catch for the defending OROY 😤



📺: #NYJvsLV on NBC

📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/lfCP1NFAnO pic.twitter.com/eQjJRa6EAY — NFL (@NFL) November 13, 2023

8:28 p.m.: Zach Wilson to Garrett Wilson, with an impressive throw and catch threading the needle between a pair of defenders on the left side for six yards and a first down. Jets decline the offsides penalty on the Raiders.

8:27 p.m.: Breece Hall gets the call twice to start the drive and powers his way up the middle for four on the first run, then is stuffed for only a yard on the next play.

8:25 p.m.: O'Connell tries to feed Davante Adams to start the game. He misses Adams on the first drive, then connects with him for gains of six and three. Adams is tackled just shy of the line, however, and the Raiders have to punt. Xavier Gipson calls for a fair catch at the Jets' 22.

8:23 p.m.: The Raiders will start the game with the ball on offense, and will open at their own 25.

8:10 p.m.: Rodgers might be looking better and better each week. But no, he will not be playing against the Raiders tonight.

Just had to be sure 😂



(Via: @nyjets) pic.twitter.com/cBHbnGaC73 — Sunday Night Football on NBC (@SNFonNBC) November 13, 2023

What channel is Jets vs. Raiders on today?

Game: Jets at Raiders

Jets at Raiders Date: Sunday, Nov. 12

Sunday, Nov. 12 TV channel: NBC

NBC Live stream: Peacock, NBCSports.com, Fubo (U.S.) | DAZN (Canada)

New York and Las Vegas will face off on "Sunday Night Football," which is carried by NBC. Mike Tirico will handle play-by-play with Cris Collinsworth providing commentary. Melissa Stark will report from the sidelines.

Those hoping to stream the game can find it on Peacock or NBCSports.com with a cable subscription. Fubo, which offers a free trial, will carry NBC's broadcast. DAZN carries all NFL games in Canada.

Jets vs. Raiders start time

Date: Sunday, Nov. 12

Sunday, Nov. 12 Start time: 8:20 p.m. ET

The Jets and Raiders will start their "Sunday Night Football" game at 8:20 p.m. ET, from Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas.