Despite being a full-blown title contender in the NASCAR Cup Series, Kyle Larson manages to run a pretty successful Sprint Car Series. The Hendrick Motorsports driver is the co-owner of the High Limits Racing Sprint Car Series, along with four-time World of Outlaws Series champion and brother-in-law Brad Sweet. The venture by the two motorsports athletes has been a success so far, and recently, one of their races pulled an extraordinary crowd, which included a rather popular figure in the world of motorsports, Dale Earnhardt Jr.

America’s Favorite Video Today

Junior was present at High Limit Racing’s Commonwealth Clash at the Lernerville Speedway on Tuesday. He and Brad Sweet used to have a working relationship, as the latter used to be a development driver for JR Motorsports in the NASCAR Nationwide Series. As per Larson, it was the former Cup Series driver who had requested a visit to the event and had also urged Kyle Larson to take part in the race, which he obliged. The 49-year-old was quite happy with his experience after the event, but before the action started, he conducted an interview with Larson and Sweet, where he asked about the origins of the competition.

Kyle Larson explains his goal of “adding pressure” to his competition

ADVERTISEMENT Article continues below this ad

Larson has always been a fan of sprint car racing, so it really is no surprise that he decided to start a competition involving sprint cars. What is surprising is how he gets the time to look after his Cup Series title run and the competition at the same time. It really is quite commendable that he has been able to turn High Limits Racing into the success that it is today.

Speaking about how everything started with him and Brad Sweet, Kyle Larson said, “Well, you’ve always talked about having a series that’s solely based around me or whatever, and I didn’t really want that, you know. I wanted to help out the other racers really, and you know I got to. Really, my eyes opened to starting this deal when I started racing the late model, and you know, FloRacing has their Tuesday night late model series and, you know, pays 20 some thousand to win every Tuesday, and I was like, Why wouldn’t that work in sprint cars?”

While others in Larson’s position might have felt that being the owner of a competition would be too challenging to focus on their racing career, the Hendrick Motorsports driver welcomed it with open arms. He saw a business opportunity ripe for the taking, took his shot, and hit the mark.

The series obviously helps out both Sweet and Larson financially, given the fan following it has garnered, but it is also quite profitable for the drivers and the teams. The winning driver, who in this case was David Gravel, wins $50,000, and with crowds so big, it helps out the teams with merchandise sales.

Events like these also help to keep these smaller race tracks across the country in good shape. If a track isn’t used or taken care of for an extended period of time, it will start to wear out and eventually become completely unsuitable for any kind of racing unless it is taken apart and rebuilt. But one of Kyle Larson’s reasons for doing what he does with the High Limits Racing Sprint Car Series is a lot simpler, and he revealed that goal to Dale Earnhardt Jr. at the Lernerville Speedway.

“Can’t Have Everything You Want”- Dale Earnhardt Jr. Ruthlessly Trashes Home Track as He Endorses Wild NASCAR Rumors

“I was hoping this would add pressure to the weekend shows to raise their purses as well so I think we’ve seen a big step in that this year and I think it’s gonna continue forward so, I would say so far it’s been successful,” he added. Kyle Larson had taken part in the Lernerville race on Tuesday, only a couple of days after a hectic race in Texas, and it seems like he had brought some of that form into the dirt track race because he made a slightly similar mistake.

Cup Series hopeful has Texas deja vu at Lernerville

With just nine laps to the checkered flag, Kyle Larson was leading the race and seemed to take the victory and earn himself $50,000 in his own competition. However, much like what happened in Texas, Larson lost control of his car as he was trying to defend the lead of the race from co-owner Brad Sweet.

Unlike Texas, he did not DNF and managed to get his car back on track, but his chance to win had gone. The Cup Series HMS driver could only finish in eighth place. A racer as competitive as Larson would have liked a win, especially after what had happened the Sunday before, but it was a good day for him as the owner as well.

ADVERTISEMENT Article continues below this ad

ADVERTISEMENT Article continues below this ad

The 2021 Cup Series champion is in the prime of his career and has a lot of years left ahead of him in NASCAR, but when he decides to hang up his boots, he will hope that the High Limits Racing Sprint Cup Series achieves a high level of national popularity and he will not have to take himself out of the racing business.

Watch This Story: Dale Earnhardt Jr Reveals the Immediate Regret After Entering Bristol