When it comes to finding a device to use to read your ebooks, you have a few options to choose from. You can always buy a tablet or use your phone, but those devices are multipurpose and can be used for a ton of things, like surfing the web or doom-scrolling on Twitter. If you are looking for something to strictly read books, e-readers, while niche, are designed to store all of your books in a virtual library with limited functionality.

Amazon, one of the pioneers of the e-reader, has dominated the space for years with its ever-expanding Kindle lineup, which consists of several unique models with their own pros and cons. The bulk of the devices function as simple ebook readers; however, with the Kindle Scribe, Amazon looks to be moving beyond books and into the realm of writing — something that should make future Kindles function more akin to physical paper.

Below, we’ve listed each model currently available. Sometimes, there isn’t a deal for one or any of the products, but we’ve mentioned the most recent sale price in those instances. Keep in mind that Amazon also offers 20 percent off all of its Kindles when you trade in select devices, so there are still other ways to save money when none of the models are available at a discount.

Image: Amazon

The best Kindle (2022) deals

What does it mean when a Kindle is “ad-supported”? Amazon Kindle e-readers come in different storage configurations, but there is also an additional option that allows you to buy the e-reader with or without ads. Ad-supported Kindles will display personalized advertisements on the lock screen when it is in sleep mode or at the bottom of the homescreen when the device is connected to Wi-Fi. Typically, you save about $20 by buying the ad-supported version, but if you decide to remove ads later, you can make a one-time payment to cover the difference and remove the ads.

In case you missed it, Amazon announced a new entry-level Kindle last year, one that’s designed to replace the 2019 model. The latest Kindle — which starts at $99.99 — puts Amazon’s base e-reader more in line with the most recent Kindle Paperwhite, providing a number of quality-of-life improvements in the process. The new model features longer battery life, a 300ppi screen, and now charges via USB-C instead of Micro USB. It also touts 16GB of storage by default and comes in a new “denim” color, which resembles the soft blue you might associate with jeans.

We recently saw Amazon’s newest ad-supported Kindle drop to $79.99 ($20 off) with three months of Kindle Unlimited included. Right now, though, you can only buy the Kindle at Amazon, Best Buy, and Target for its full retail price. However, you can pick it up on sale at Amazon with ads, a power adapter, and a fabric cover starting at $134.97 ($15 off). Regardless of whether you choose the standalone model or the bundle, the new Kindle remains a worthwhile option if you’re looking to pick up an e-reader for less than the latest Paperwhite.

The best Kindle Kids (2022) deals

The new base Kindle wasn’t the only e-reader Amazon introduced in 2022. The new entry-level model has arrived alongside a new Kindle Kids, which is identical to the standard model but comes with a handful of accessories and provides age-appropriate content for younger readers who prefer digital books. Like the last-gen Kindle Kids, the new model retails for $20 more than the base model, bringing the MSRP to $119.99.

In terms of add-ons, the new Kindle Kids edition consists of four items: the device, a case, a two-year extended replacement guarantee (in the event the device breaks), and one year of Amazon Kids Plus. The latter is the biggest selling point of the device aside from the kid-friendly patterns, as it allows parents to grant their child access to a digital library of kid-friendly books like Percy Jackson and the entire Harry Potter series at no additional cost.

We recently saw the Kindle Kids drop to as low as $79.99 for Black Friday. Right now, however, there are no deals available, meaning you can only buy Amazon’s latest Kindle Kids at Amazon and Best Buy for its full retail price of $119.99.

Verge Deals on X (formerly Twitter) / Join nearly 51,000 followers and keep up with the best daily tech deals with @vergedeals Follow us!

The Kindle Paperwhite Signature Edition is identical to the standard model but features wireless charging and a sensor to automatically adjust the backlight. Photo by Chaim Gartenberg / The

The best Kindle Paperwhite (2021) deals

Amazon’s latest Kindle Paperwhite is its 11th-gen model, which comes with USB-C support, longer battery life, and a larger 6.8-inch display. The e-reader launched more than two years ago, and it often receives steep discounts at retailers like Amazon and Best Buy, particularly around Black Friday and throughout the holiday season. You can still occasionally pick up the last-gen model from 2018 at a discount.

Amazon has also rolled out a Kindle Paperwhite Kids Edition for $169.99, which comes bundled with a kid-friendly cover, a two-year extended replacement guarantee, and a year of Amazon Kids Plus, much like the aforementioned Kindle Kids. All 2021 models are also similar to the 2018 model in that they feature a waterproof design and Audible audiobook support.

Lastly, if you’re looking for the Kindle Paperwhite Kids Edition, Amazon and Best Buy are both selling the kid-friendly ebook reader for $144.99 ($25 off), which is a relatively minor discount but likely the only one we’ll see before the holiday.

Photo by Amelia Holowaty Krales / The Verge

The best Kindle Oasis (2019) deals

The Kindle Oasis is the most expensive of the lineup, starting at $249.99. The device comes in two storage configurations, 8GB or 32GB, and like the other models, you can get it with or without ads on the lock screen.

The 2019 Kindle Oasis looks very similar to the previous model. It retains its waterproof 7-inch 300ppi E Ink display and supports Audible audiobooks via Bluetooth. However, unlike previous models, it can adjust the color temperature to a yellow-toned display, making it easier to read at night.

In the past, we’ve seen the 8GB Kindle Oasis drop to as low as $174.99, which remains the lowest price to date for the standalone configuration. Sadly, however, the ad-supported Oasis is only retailing at Amazon right now starting at $249.99.

Kindle Oasis Essentials Bundle (2019) $ 280 $ 310 10 % off $ 280 $ 280 $ 310 10 % off Amazon’s latest Essentials Bundle packages the most recent Kindle Oasis with a power adapter and your choice of either a fabric or leather cover. $280 at Amazon (8GB)

As for bundles, the 8GB Kindle Oasis is currently on sale in its ad-supported configuration at Amazon with a power adapter and either a fabric cover for $279.97 ($30 off) or a leather cover for $289.97 ($30 off).

Image: Amelia Holowaty Krales / The Verge

The best Kindle Scribe deals

The ad-free Kindle Scribe is Amazon’s biggest e-reader to date — one that also represents a departure from past Kindle models. It packs a 10.2-inch display with 300 dpi, along with the same great battery life for which Kindles have become known. What separates the Scribe from other models, however, is that it comes with one of two styli, which can be used to annotate books, doodle, or jot down notes. We found the e-reader’s note-taking capabilities lacking in our testing, but Amazon has already started to improve the software via free OTA software updates, helping bring it up to speed with other E Ink competitors.

As for the model with the Premium Pen, which offers a shortcut button and a built-in eraser, it’s on sale in the 16GB configuration at Amazon starting at $294.99 ($75 off). You can also pick up the 16GB model with a Premium Pen, a folio cover, and a power adapter starting at $334.97 ($115 off).

Kindle Scribe Essentials Bundle $ 310 $ 420 26 % off $ 310 $ 310 $ 420 26 % off Amazon’s base Essentials Bundle comes with a 16GB Kindle Scribe, a Basic Pen stylus, a power adapter, and one of three fabric folio covers. $310 at Amazon