Monday Night Football closes out the NFL’s Week 15 tonight with a pair of teams desperately looking to snap losing streaks. The Eagles vs. Seahawks matchup should be an exciting game, making it a great time to use our sportsbook bonus codes and links to sign up for new sports betting accounts and claim some fantastic welcome offers.

Before tonight’s MNF kickoff in Seattle, just use our exclusive bonus codes at Bet365, BetMGM, BetRivers, Caesars Sportsbook, DraftKings and FanDuel to claim more than $5,000 in bonuses.

Top Sportsbook Bonuses Offer Promo Code Caesars Sportsbook Get $1,000 First Bet on Caesars NEWS1000 BetMGM $1,500 First Bet SPORTSPICK Bet365 First Bet Safety Net up to $1,000 --or-- Bet $5, Get $150 in bonus bets TSNCO FanDuel Bet $5 on any moneyline, Get $150 in bonus bets if your team wins Click to claim DraftKings Up to $1,200 in welcome offers Click to claim BetRivers 2nd chance bet up to $500 SPORTSRIV

Claim $5,000+ in sports betting bonuses for Eagles vs. Seahawks on Monday Night Football with these promo codes and links

By using our exclusive bonus codes and links from Bet365, BetMGM, BetRivers, Caesars Sportsbook, DraftKings and FanDuel, new users can claim more than $5,000 in sports betting bonuses for NFL games like tonight’s Eagles/Seahawks MNF matchup.

Here are the latest bonuses currently being offered by the top sportsbook apps:

Bet365 bonus code TSNCO unlocks First Bet Safety Net up to $1,000 or Bet $5, Get $150 in bonus bets for MNF Eagles vs. Seahawks

New Bet365 customers can choose from two excellent welcome offers when using our exclusive Bet365 promo code TSNCO:

The First Bet Safety Net offer gives new customers a refund of up to $1,000 in bonus bets if their first Bet365 bet is a loss.

For the Bet $5, Get $150 new user offer, you’ll receive $150 in bonus bets after placing your first bet of at least $5.

Use Bet365 bonus code VATSN if you’re betting in Virginia and NJTSN if you’re in New Jersey.

BetMGM bonus code SPORTSPICK offers $1,500 first bet bonus for Eagles vs. Seahawks Monday Night Football

BetMGM has a nice welcome offer that provides new customers who use our exclusive BetMGM promo code SPORTSPICK a first bet offer worth up to $1,500 in bonus bets.

Just use our BetMGM bonus code SPORTSPICK to register your new account. Then make an initial deposit of at least $10.

After that, just bet on any game and if your first bet loses, BetMGM will return the full stake of that wager (up to $1,500) as bonus bets.

Use BetRivers bonus code SPORTSRIV to claim Second Chance Bet up to $100, $250 or $500 for MNF with the Eagles and Seahawks

Sign up for a new BetRivers account using our exclusive BetRivers bonus code SPORTSRIV to get a Second Chance Bet worth up to $500.

It’s easy. Just click our link, use the promo code SPORTSRIV, register your new account and then make a deposit. Place your first bet and, if it loses, BetRivers will refund the amount of the wager in bonus bets worth up to $100, $250 or $500, depending on your state.

Use our BetRivers bonus code SPORTSRIV and you’ll receive a Second Chance Bet worth up to $100 (for users in AZ, IA, OH and WV), $250 (available in CO and NJ) or $500 (if betting from IL, IN, LA, MD, MI, PA and VA).

Caesars Sportsbook promo code NEWS1000 offers $1,000 First Bet On Caesars for Eagles vs. Seahawks MNF

Use our Caesars Sportsbook promo code NEWS1000 to register a new Caesars account and claim a First Bet bonus of up to $1,000.

To claim this top-notch welcome offer, click our Caesars Sportsbook promo code link and sign up for a new Caesars account. Be sure Caesars Sportsbook promo code NEWS1000 is entered when prompted. Then make your first deposit ($10 minimum).

After that, place your first Caesars Sportsbook bet and if it loses you’ll get the amount of that wager (up to $1,000) as a single bonus bet.

Get up to $1,200 in bonuses for Eagles vs. Seahawks Monday Night Football with our DraftKings promo code link

DraftKings has three welcome offers new customers can claim by using our DraftKings promo code link:

Deposit a minimum of $5 and receive a $50 bonus bet

Bet a minimum of $5 and get $150 in bonus bets

A 20% first deposit match up to $1,000

To claim the new user offers, first click our DraftKings promo code link and sign up for a new account. Then make your first deposit of at least $5 and you’ll receive a $50 bonus bet.

When you make your first bet of $5 or more, your account will also be credited with $150 in bonus bets.

To claim the maximum 20% deposit match of $1,000 you will need to deposit $5,000. There is also a 25x playthrough requirement to claim the full amount.

FanDuel promo code link for MNF Eagles vs. Seahawks: Bet $5 on any moneyline, get $150 in bonus bets if your team wins

FanDuel is giving new customers who use our exclusive FanDuel promo code link a chance to claim $150 in bonus bets.

All you have to do is use our FanDuel promo code link to sign up for a new account. Then bet at least $5 on any moneyline and, on top of your winnings, you’ll get $150 in bonus bets if your team wins.

Since you need your moneyline bet to win to claim the $150 in bonus bets, if you’re wagering on tonight’s MNF game, you’ll probably want to go with the favored Eagles. Read on for odds and more picks to consider for tonight’s Monday Night Football matchup.

Eagles vs. Seahawks MNF odds + picks to consider: Use our bonus codes and links for the best football betting promos

Here are odds for tonight’s Eagles vs. Seahawks Monday Night Football game.

The Eagles and Seahawks come into this Monday Night Football game on troubling losing streaks. The NFC matchup has important playoff implications, particularly for Philadelphia.

Philly’s two-game losing streak has dropped them to second place in the NFC East behind the Cowboys, who are also 10-3 but have the tiebreaker thanks to their slightly better divisional record.

For a good stretch of the season, the Eagles appeared unstoppable and have been a favorite to return to the Super Bowl. After a surprising loss to the Jets in Week 6 (their first of the season), Philadelphia went on a five-game winning streak, impressively taking down top teams like the Dolphins, Cowboys and Chiefs. Most of those games were gritty, close wins, but then the Eagles dropped back-to-back games in blowout fashion to the 49ers and Cowboys, raising alarm bells amongst the Philly fanbase.

The Eagles are looking to rebound against a Seahawks team that has been reeling even worse, losing four straight. Sitting four games behind the 49ers in the NFC West, despite a disappointing season, Seattle still has a shot at a wild card playoff spot. After tonight’s game, the Seahawks’ schedule eases up a bit, with winnable games against the Titans, Steelers and Cardinals. But they could really use a victory to give them some confidence going into the final stretch.

Picks to consider