The Seahawks are just about hanging on by a thread. At 6-7, the team is on the outside looking in when it comes to the playoff picture. A win on Monday night against the suddenly reeling Eagles could be a big boost in their chances going forward -- a matchup that is actually a pretty good one after looking beneath the surface. The Eagles come in as losers of two straight, losing in blowout fashion both times no less. Suddenly the sky is falling as the Cowboys have taken over the NFC East division lead, complicating matters as the regular season winds down. The sense of urgency for both sides means we are looking at two teams with plenty to lose, setting up for a fun Monday night under the lights at Lumen Field.

Before we get into our lineup and strategy, here are the key scoring settings for DraftKings Showdown contests: They're full-point PPR and there are three-point bonuses for 300 passing yards, 100 rushing yards, and 100 receiving yards. The Captain pick costs 1.5 times a player's original price, but he also gets his point total multiplied by 1.5.

Eagles-Seahawks DraftKings Picks: DFS lineup for Week 15 Monday Night Football

$50,000 budget, need at least one player from each team.

Captain (1.5x points, 1.5x salary): WR DK Metcalf, Seahawks ($14,400)

The Eagles secondary issues are well-documented at this stage and they'll be made even worse with the absence of CB Darius Slay (knee) in Seattle on Monday night. Metcalf has four touchdowns in his last two games, including a three TD game against a stout Cowboys defense. The receiver has been prone to being undisciplined on the field, however, resulting in an ejection against the 49ers last week. That is always a concern when trusting Metcalf, but we take the good with the bad since the ceiling is so high. No matter who ends up starting at QB, the WR is in line for another dominant showing against one of the league's most generous secondaries.

FLEX QB Geno Smith, Seahawks ($9,400)

Metcalf won't be throwing the ball to himself and he's not one to get opportunities in the running game, meaning that someone will be setting him up for success. And since Smith appears ready to play, he finds himself with a spot in our lineup. In the event that he doesn't play, however, we will turn to Drew Lock ($9,200) in his place. Regardless, the Seattle quarterbacks are set up for success and should be able to light up the skies on Monday night. Take the chance to stack QB1 and WR1 from the home side.

FLEX WR DeVonta Smith, Eagles ($9,000)

Most of the attention will continue to be focused on A.J. Brown, but what about the reliable Smith? He's quietly been the more productive option over the last three weeks, totaling 62.5 fantasy points to just 54.5 from Brown. Seattle's secondary was torched by San Francisco last week, allowing both Brandon Aiyuk and Deebo Samuel to go over the century mark. And for all the credit that the Eagles get for having a great team, they are a fairly top-heavy bunch. There's no clear WR3 behind Brown and Smith, meaning the opportunities will be aplenty. Expect that big workload to continue for a receiver that's sometimes forgotten in Philly.

FLEX RB D'Andre Swift, Eagles ($8,000)

The message to the Eagles has been clear from the fans -- run the ball. It's part of what made this team so hard to beat earlier in the season. They've become a pass-happy offense in recent history, relying mostly on the legs and arm of Jalen Hurts to do everything. After getting smacked by the Cowboys last week, the Eagles weren't afforded the opportunity to establish the run. That will be a point of emphasis this time around, especially since Hurts is dealing with an illness. It's been three weeks since Swift had any kind of impact. That needs to change if the Eagles want to get back on track.

FLEX TE Dallas Goedert, Eagles ($6,200)

One of the players that should help this team get-right is Goedert. The TE is healthy once again, having returned against the Cowboys last week and settled in nicely by collecting all four targets for 30 yards. We mentioned earlier the lack of a true WR3 for Philly, but that is essentially Goedert's role with the lack of WR depth. As a trusted option in the passing game, Goedert should find success against a defense that's been shredded by TEs in back-to-back weeks.

FLEX TE Noah Fant, Seahawks ($2,600)

Fant rounds out the lineup as a fine sleeper option against a defense that's struggled to contain TEs at times throughout this season. He likely needs a touchdown to make a real impact, but we can pencil in Fant for around four targets in an offense that seemingly loves to throw touchdowns to random TEs. Considering the state of our budget at this point, we're taking a shot on Fant to deliver as a short-yardage option with the Eagles' pass rush threatening to make life difficult.

MORE DK SHOWDOWN: How to win a Showdown contest

Best SuperDraft Eagles-Seahawks DFS Picks

This year, we're also listing our favorite single-game DFS plays on SuperDraft.

For those unfamiliar, SuperDraft's DFS scoring involves point multipliers as opposed to traditional salary-capped or tiered contests. A winning lineup will likely feature a strong mix of stud fantasy contributors with 1x-1.6x boosts, as well as matchup-based sleepers with larger multipliers. Each player is assigned a scoring multiplier based on their value as determined by SuperDraft. Users can roster any player in their lineup with no restrictions.

Win BIG with SuperDraft! Join now and get a free deposit match of $20!

Here are the most notable scoring rules for SuperDraft NFL contests: Half-point PPR, four-point passing TDs, two-point bonuses for 100 rushing yards, 100 receiving yards, and 300 passing yards.

MORE SUPERDRAFT DFS: How to play SuperDraft

Champion (+50% points): WR DK Metcalf, Seahawks (Multiplier 1.8x)

Super FLEX: QB Geno Smith, Seahawks (Multiplier 1.2x)

Super FLEX: QB Jalen Hurts, Eagles (Multiplier 1x)

Super FLEX: WR A.J. Brown, Eagles (Multiplier 1.05x)

Super FLEX: WR DeVonta Smith, Eagles (Multiplier 1.25x)

Our SuperDraft lineup for Monday night's game is going all-in on the passing attacks for both sides. We're carrying our Smith-Metcalf stack over to the SuperDraft side of things, but the lack of a budget allows us to get Hurts along with Brown and the Eagles' Smith to stack things on the opposite sideline too. We envision plenty of production through the air despite both team's desire to run the ball.