Amon-Ra St. Brown was in the midst of a tempest, shrouded in a sea of green with few options around him. The Lions WR had done the hard part, stretching beyond an exasperated Packers defense to trot into the end zone.

But he had a choice to make: rollick in the joy of his sapphire-clad teammates. Or take a leap of faith into the Lambeau Field abyss.

He opted for the latter. St. Brown hurled himself into the green lagoon. Then, he smiled.

St. Brown's impersonation of the Lambeau Leap was one of many high points in a memorable night for Detroit. Fueled by a stout defensive showing, a gritty run game and a bit of fairy dust from the likes of St. Brown, Sam LaPorta and Josh Reynolds, the Lions cruised to a 34-20 win over their hated NFC North rivals, Green Bay.

Thursday's game appeared to be destined to be a showcase of quarterbacking excellence; Jared Goff and Jordan Love have proved themselves to be formidable options under center since taking the reins of their respective offenses.

But it was the supporting cast that proved so pivotal to Thursday's result for Dan Campbell's side. David Montgomery was a nuisance, slipping through crevices to puncture the heart of the Packers' defense. When it wasn't him, it was that receiving corp, made up of unheralded youngsters who have all come up trumps in recent weeks.

As for Love and Co., Thursday's affair was another indication of just how much work there is to be done before they compete for the divisional crown. There were certainly some flits of delight, throws that highlighted just how much talent Love possesses in his golden arm.

But there were low points, too, misshapen efforts that fell harmlessly to the turf, or harmfully into the opposition's hands.

NFL WEEK 4 PICKS: Straight up | Against the spread | Projection model

The Sporting News tracked live updates from Thursday's clash between the Lions and the Packers. Scroll below to check out highlights and live results as two of the NFC's oldest sides faced off for NFC North glory.

Lions vs. Packers score

1 2 3 4 F Lions 14 13 0 7 34 Packers 3 0 8 9 20

Lions vs. Packers live updates, highlights from Thursday Night Football

(All times Eastern)

End of fourth quarter: Lions 34, Packers 20

11:19 p.m.: Lions complete yet another fourth down, officially putting the game on ice.

11:12 p.m.: Onside kick spills out of bounds, and it's looking like that might be that. Packers have one timeout remaining but Montgomery's fiery run through the tackles should make that obsolete.

11:11 p.m.: FIELD GOAL! Carlson's try from distance makes the deficit two possessions.

11:08 p.m.: Not so fast. ... A quick three-and-out gives Green Bay a glimmer. That glimmer grows even brighter after an impressive return by Keisean Nixon. Let's see what they can do with 3:30 left.

11:04 p.m.: INTERCEPTION! That's wraps. Love misses his target, instead finding the mitts of Jacobs for his second pick of the day. Strong showing by this Detroit defense. And that should put things to bed.

10:54 p.m.: TOUCHDOWN! Walker's penalty proves vital as Montgomery finds pay dirt from a couple yards out on fourth down. Gutsy call by Campbell. And one that pays off in spades for Detroit, which extends its lead to 17.

Lions 34, Packers 17

10:50 p.m.: Quay Walker's leaps over a blocker on Riley Patterson's field goal attempt, prompting a unsportsmanlike penalty. That will put Detroit on the cusp of another score, pending a Packers defensive rally.

10:43 p.m.: Lions beginning to salt the game away with strong running through the tackles. Montgomery and Gibbs creeping through the crevices to push Detroit down the field. And an impressive toss from Goff into the outstretched hands of Reynolds, as well. The Lions are on the doorstep of the red zone.

10:36 p.m.: TOUCHDOWN! Love scampers into the end zone from short distance to cut that Detroit lead down even more. He got held short of the end zone on the ensuing two-point effort. But Green Bay is firmly back in it.

Lions 27, Packers 17

End of third quarter: Lions 27, Packers 11

10:31 p.m.: Impressive pitch-and-catch by Love and Jayden Reed. Packers hurler drops it right into Reed's bread basket for the 44 yard gain as the quarter comes to an end.

10:24 p.m.: Things slow down for Green Bay on Drive No. 2 of the second half. Punt incoming. Packers need less of that as they attempt their second-straight rally in as many weeks.

10:15 p.m.: Green Bay defense firms up, forcing yet another punt. Can Love and the Packers bring things back?

10:10 p.m.: TOUCHDOWN! Love finds Watson for the TD, giving Packers fans a much-needed boost of adrenaline. Good drive by Green Bay, which finally shows signs of life after a putrid first half.

Lions 27, Packers 11

10:05 p.m.: Great throw by Love, who threads the needle to find Romeo Doubs to keep the chains moving on fourth down. Packers on the brink of a much-needed touchdown.

9:58 p.m.: This Green Bay offense has to come to life sooner rather than later. If not, this scoreboard could get even more crooked.

Good start to the third frame by the Pack, who find themselves marauding down the field with relative ease in the quarter's opening possession. Every journey began with a single step...

9:20 p.m.: INTERCEPTION! Love's errant pass gets snagged by Jerry Jacobs, who plods 20 yards back to put Detroit on the brink of the promised land. It's been a putrid start for Love and the Green Bay offense so far.

9:15 p.m.: FIELD GOAL! The good times keep on rolling for Detroit, which adds to its lead after another standout drive spearheaded by Goff and Montgomery. The Lions are rolling early.

Lions 17, Packers 3

End of first quarter: Lions 14, Pacers 3

8:51 p.m.: Impressive play-calling for the Lions, who continue to carve their way up the field.

8:50 p.m.: Love has been unable to find a rhythm in his first few possessions. Another gives Detroit another chance to make the Lions' life a living hell.

8:43 p.m.: TOUCHDOWN! Montgomery goes into his right tackle before finding the end zone. Detroit's office os cooking with gan.

Lions 14, Packers 3

8:42 p.m.: Decent scamper by Goff brings Detroit right to the cusp of pay first. Lions are closed to adding a second score.

8:40 p.m.: Since the interception, it's felt as if Goff and the Lions can get anything they want. Gibbs is lightning in a bottle, while Montgomery brings the thunder. This drive just continues to get lengthier and lengthier.

8:34 p.m.: Lions are looking menacing as can be in the trenches. Isaiah Buggs sends Love spiraling with a crunching hit behind the line. The Packers are giving the ball back to the Lions on a three-and-out.

8:29 p.m.: TOUCHDOWN! Amon-Ra St. Brown leaps, stretches and reels in Goff's feather towards the corner of the end zone! Detroit showing just what its offense can do when its clicking.

Lions 7, Packers 3

8:27 p.m.: Sam LaPorta gets beyond his marker with a strong move and plods 35 yards down the field. The rookie tight end has been producing at a historic clip so far. And it looks like he's on pace for another standout showing this week.

8:26 p.m.: Jahmyr Gibbs and David Montgomery look a formidable duo in the backfield. Just collaborated to push the Lions forward as they move the chains for the first time today.

8:21 p.m.: FIELD GOAL! Packers open the scoring courtesy of an Anders Carlson field goal. Lions defense held tough, all things considered. Aidan Hutchinson burst through the trenches to send Love tumbling to precipitate the stop.

Packers 3, Lions 0

8:14 p.m.: INTERCEPTION! Rudy Ford swipes Jared Goff's errant pass from the sky and takes it back 16 yards to put the Packers on the cusp of the end zone! That's Goff's third interception in as many games!

8:13 p.m.: Lions starting the game with the ball. Packers defense looking stout as ever through the opening two plays.

8:12 p.m.: Weezy F Baby leading the Packers out onto the field! Wasn't expecting that!

7:53 p.m.: Marshawn Lynch kicking it with Barry Sanders in a pre-game segment. This is what you love to see. It looks like two legends can co-exist.

7:40 p.m.: Aaron Jones' return should offer Love a much-needed reprieve. Green Bay's run game hasn't been all that effective thus far — the Pack are averaging just 3.4 yards per carry so far this year. But Jones is a dynamic force coming out of the backfield, someone capable of carrying an offense on his back for large portions of a game. That's a young QB's dream.

7:30 p.m.: Jordan Love and the Packers heading onto the field ahed of tonight's game! We're about 45 minutes from kickoff at the Pantheon of football excellence, Lambeau Field.

Lions vs. Packers start time

Date: Thursday, Sept. 28

Thursday, Sept. 28 Start time: 8:15 p.m. ET

Thursday night's game between the Lions and Packers will feature in the primetime slot of 8:15 p.m. ET.

What channel is Lions vs. Packers on today?

Game: Detroit Lions at Green Bay Packers

Detroit Lions at Green Bay Packers Date: Thursday, September 28

Thursday, September 28 TV channel (Detroit) : WJBK (Channel 2)

: WJBK (Channel 2) TV channel (Green Bay) : WITI (Channel 6) or WGBA (Channel 26)

: WITI (Channel 6) or WGBA (Channel 26) Live stream: Amazon Prime Video | DAZN (in Canada)

For the masses of NFL fans across the U.S., Thursday's clash between the Lions and Packers will be aired on Amazon Prime Video. The broadcast will be spearheaded by legendary play-by-play announcer Al Michaels. He'll be joined by longtime ESPN college football commentator Kirk Herbstreit, who will offer occasional musings as an analyst. Sideline reporter Kaylee Hartung will offer updates throughout the affair.

Fans in the Detroit and Green Bay markets can watch the Amazon broadcast over the air on local channels.

Those in Canada can stream it on DAZN, which carries every NFL game all season.