NFL award longshots can be easy to overlook since each has a favorite(s). The longshot may be playing well, but other players have commanded the spotlight, making it easier for them to go unnoticed.

Whatever the reason, they have not gotten the credit they deserve. However, with five weeks left in the regular season, there is plenty of time for a longshot to become a contender.

But if you wait too long before placing a bet, your payout will be a lot less than if you were to roll the dice on a longshot right now.

Longshots to consider for NFL MVP, OPOY, DPOY, Coach of the Year and Comeback POY

There is always a reason why a player or several players have relatively short odds — they've been the best at their position throughout the season. Consequently, there is just as good a reason why longshots have odds as long as they do.

So, keep your bets small, or use a bonus bet (if you have one available), on longshots. If they do go on to win, smile all the way to the bank while you tell everyone, "I told you so."

RELATED: Best NFL Betting sites | How to bet on the NFL

NFL MVP

Current favorite(s): Brock Purdy , Dak Prescott , Jalen Hurts

, Dak Prescott , Jalen Hurts Longshot(s): C.J. Stroud , Jared Goff

The MVP often ends up being someone, typically the quarterback, from one of the top-seeded teams. Hence, Brock Purdy, Dak Prescott and Jalen Hurts sit atop betting boards after Week 13.

But, by that logic, Jared Goff should be in the conversation. He has played well this season — his Lions are 9-3, poised to win the NFC South and in contention for the No. 1 seed in the conference.

Compared to the 49ers, Cowboys and Eagles, Goff and the Lions may have the easiest schedule to finish the season.

But bettors should also pay attention to C.J. Stroud. He leads the league in passing yards, is one of four quarterbacks eho have started the whole season with a passer rating over 100, and his touchdown to interception ratio is the best in the NFL (4 to 1)

As for the value of his play, Stroud has taken one of the worst teams in the NFL (11 total wins the last three seasons) and turned it into a playoff contender and potential division champion.

Offensive Player of the Year

Current favorite: Tyreek Hill

Longshot: CeeDee Lamb

There's a good reason why Tyreek Hill is such a heavy favorite to win OPOY. The Dolphins wide receiver is on track to become the first player with 2,000-plus receiving yards in a single season.

But there is a solid chance he does not hit that mark. Of Miami's five remaining opponents, four have pass defenses ranked in the league's top eight. If he slows down, someone like CeeDee Lamb could catch up.

Based on his current season average, Lamb is on track for close to 1,600 yards, but based on his production over the last seven games, he could finish with closer to 1,800 yards.

He will probably need Hill to fade down the stretch to have a shot. But if Hill does and he continues to produce, Lamb could steal OPOY from Hill.

Defensive Player of the Year

Current favorite(s): Micah Parsons , Myles Garrett , and T.J. Watt

, Myles Garrett , and T.J. Watt Longshot: Danielle Hunter

Hunter leads the league in tackles for a loss and is third in sacks with 13.5 (behind Khalil Mack and Watt). Not only has he produced at a high level, but his play has been instrumental in the Vikings turning things around after a 1-4 start.

He may not have the name recognition that Parsons, Garrett and Watt have, but he has played as well, if not better, this season. If he can continue to produce, he at least deserves to be in the conversation, if not win.

Coach of the Year

Current favorite: Dan Campbell +200 (via DraftKings)

Longshot: Sean Payton +2200 (via DraftKings)

Campbell has done a tremendous job with the Lions, but it is fair to wonder if he's the betting favorite because of how well he has done his job this season or over the last two. This year, the team benefited from the groundwork laid last season.

If there were a reward for the best coach over two seasons, he would deserve it. As for this season, not so much.

Sean Payton should be at the forefront of the conversation. It's one thing to turn around a team that was dreadful last season. But he has taken one that got off to a horrible start and turned things around in-season.

Oh — and he has resurrected Russell Wilson's career.

That alone should put him at the top of the list, but he may need to get Denver into the playoffs to convince voters.

Comeback Player of the Year

Current favorite: Demar Hamlin

Longshot: Russell Wilson

Coming back from a life-threatening injury like a cardiac arrest makes Hamlin a great candidate to win CPOY. However, it would be understandable if voters were to look elsewhere since Hamlin has seldom been active on game day and rarely seen the field.

It will depend on how vital voters deem playing to be.

Wilson was supposed to be the next great franchise quarterback for the Broncos when they acquired him prior to last season. But rather than lead the team back to prominence, Wilson was terrible and so was Denver.

This season, Wilson has played well even when the Broncos have not. He is not producing mind-blowing stat lines, but he is keeping his team competitive, playing efficiently and not making many mistakes.

Until his three-interception day last week, he had the best touchdown-to-interception ratio in the league. But even with those picks, his is still second-best.