As we trot into Turkey Day week, only three more regular-season weeks remain until the fantasy football playoffs. Every decision — from the tough starts to the difficult sits; the savvy waiver adds to the costly drops — can ultimately decide whether your team is a contender or a pretender. Our Week 12 fantasy RB rankings for standard leagues will help guide you to the right moves and hopefully land you a big "W" for which to be thankful.

Trade deadlines have passed in most leagues, so the majority of fantasy owners must soldier on toward the home stretch with the main core they have built to this point. On a positive note, we have no byes to worry about this — just plenty of short turnarounds, some potential weather concerns, and of course, the dreaded injury bug. Fortunately for us, we have been ahead of the curve with sleepers and breakouts all season, so we're more prepared to weather any storm than the average fantasy Joe.

Let's get right to our Week 12 RB rankings so you can fully prepare for Thanksgiving week and put out a lineup with backs who will feast like the rest of us.

MORE: Watch NFL RedZone live with Sling (50% off first month)

Which RBs are on bye in Week 12?

None! It's a Thanksgiving miracle! Not only do we not have any byes to worry about this week, but we also have NFL action on four different days (Thursday, Friday, Sunday, Monday).

WEEK 12 STANDARD RANKINGS:

QBs | WRs | TEs | D/STs | Kickers

In some ways, however, a bye-free week at this stage of the season presents more challenges than ever. Whereas byes make some start 'em, sit 'em decisions no-brainers, 16-game weeks make it a lot easier to get lineup decisions wrong. Don't worry — we'll steer you in the right direction and keep you apprised of all the information you'll need throughout the week.

WEEK 12 PPR RANKINGS:

QBs | RBs | WRs | TEs | D/STs | Kickers

Who are the best fantasy RBs in Week 12?

As always, Christian McCaffrey (@ Seahawks in Week 12) heads the list as the most matchup-proof running back in the NFL. Right behind him, Austin Ekeler (vs. Ravens) will look to bounce back after an uncharacteristically rough showing in Green Bay last week.

Against the Commanders last week, Saquon Barkley (vs. Patriots) looked as good as we've seen him this season (140 total yards, two TDs). The Pats have surrendered 116 scrimmage yards per game and nine total TDs to RBs this season, so we like Barkley to pick up where he left off this Sunday (drive up that free-agency value, 'Quon!).

You don't see running mates cracking the top five very often, but we had to make the exception for David Montgomery and Jahmyr Gibbs (vs. Packers). Entering Week 11, Green Bay had surrendered nearly 140 all-purpose yards per game to RBs. Between Detroit's o-line, the Lions' high-flying offensive attack, and the ruthless 1-2 punch DMont and Gibbs have been this season, the feast could be on very early for Dan Campbell's guys.

Take a collective sigh of relief, Tony Pollard (vs. Commanders) owners! TP looked solid against Carolina last week, averaging 5.1 yards per carry and finally getting into the end zone for the first time since Week 1. We have the Cowboys back just outside our top five with a juicy matchup against a Washington D that just got lit up by Saquon and the G-men.

Raheem Mostert (@ Jets) should continue to eat for Miami, with rookie De'Von Achane (knee) unfortunately getting hurt almost immediately after returning from IR (more on that later). Gang Green hasn't been nearly as good against the run as it has been against the pass, as Jets opponents have averaged 139 rushing yards per game over the past two weeks. 'Fins backup Salvon Ahmed also landed on the IR with a foot injury, so consider stashing Jeff Wilson Jr. as a handcuff.

Rounding out the top 10, the trio of Travis Etienne (@ Texans), Josh Jacobs (vs. Chiefs), and Breece Hall (vs. Dolphins) will be looking to bounce back from disappointing Week 11 outings on the ground. All three of these backs have been mostly solid, and none have much to worry about in terms of backfield competition.

WEEK 12 FANTASY ADVICE:

Sleepers | Busts | Projections | Start-sit

Who are the best fantasy RB sleepers, waiver pickups in Week 12?

Sleep on Rhamondre Stevenson (@ Giants) at your own peril. 'Mondre has accumulated 231 yards from scrimmage and a TD over New England's past two games, and the Pats are coming off bye. Washington just carved the G-men up like a turkey on the ground last week, surrendering a whopping 174 yards and a TD. Gobble gobble.

Get Kyren Williams (@ Cardinals) right back into your lineup the moment Los Angeles activates him from IR. Arizona just made Devin Singletary look like Barry Sanders, so Williams (ankle) should enjoy a triumphant return to the field. Keep rolling with Alexander Mattison (vs. Bears), too, against another below-average run defense.

Welcome to the top 25, Zach Charbonnet (vs. 49ers)! With Kenneth Walker III's oblique injury comes opportunity for the rookie, who already looked strong in the month leading up to Seattle's narrow Week 11 loss to the Rams. Sure, Charbs' 69-yard effort in Los Angeles last week was a bit underwhelming, but we love his upside with a full game as the Seahawks' bell-cow.

Speaking of bell-cow backs, things are looking very promising for the short-term workload of Green Bay's AJ Dillon (@ Lions). Veteran Aaron Jones (knee) and rookie Emanuel Wilson (shoulder) both got hurt in Week 11, so Dillon should be the main man in Motown for the Pack. Power backs have enjoyed the most success against the Lions, as evidenced last week by Chicago's Roschon Johnson averaging 5.0 yards per carry and D'Onta Foreman finding paydirt.

WEEK 12 DFS:

DK lineup | FD lineup | Best values | Best stacks

Who are the biggest potential RB busts in Week 12?

We don't quite have the intestinal fortitude to bench Derrick Henry (vs. Panthers), but we must absolutely temper our expectations with the dude at this point. Over the past two weeks, he has tallied just 64 total yards on 23 touches (2.8 yards per touch). Carolina served as Tony Pollard's get-right game last week, so fire King Henry up if you have him. If he falters against the Panthers, you better have a backup plan moving forward (picking up Tyjae Spears as insurance is a good place to start).

Both Darrell Henderson and Royce Freeman (@ Cardinals) would be decent dart throws in a week filled with byes, but their floors in a zero-bye week seem too low to trust them if Kyren Williams is back and at 100 percent. The matchup is juicy, but we have no idea what to expect from a touch-share perspective, so these guys are no better than desperation, TD-dependent flexes.

Speaking of guys coming back from injury, we saw Khalil Herbert (@ Vikings) return to the field for Chicago against the Lions last week. However, his performance left a lot to be desired. He finished with just 35 yards on 16 carries and wound up vastly overshadowed by Justin Field's 100-yard rushing effort. Even worse, D'Onta Foreman scored the Chi's lone rushing TD on the afternoon.

I don't care what your team looks like — you shouldn't be starting Chuba Hubbard or Miles Sanders (@ Titans). They weren't awful against Dallas last week on a per-touch basis, but neither finished with more than 12 touches. Even worse, no Carolina back has enjoyed a 60-yard rushing game since Oct. 15. Bad offensive line, negative game scripts, awful coaching — it's all bad, man!

What are the biggest RB injuries in Week 12?

Second-year Seahawks back Kenneth Walker III suffered an oblique injury in Week 11 that the ever-hip Pete Carroll referred to as "legit." KW3 has a better chance of missing multiple weeks than he does at suiting up for Seattle's Thanksgiving Day game against Fred Warner and the 49ers. If Zach Charbonnet somehow finds himself on your waiver wire, an early Merry Christmas to you if you have the FAAB or a high waiver priority.

The hits just keep on coming for the Packers' Aaron Jones, who suffered a knee injury but seems to have at least caught a break in the sense that he didn't tear his ACL. However, even a moderate MCL sprain could mean a multi-week absence for the injury-prone veteran back, especially in a lost season for the 4-6 Pack. Rookie Emanuel Wilson also hurt his shoulder in Week 11, so AJ Dillon could be getting the keys to Green Bay's backfield castle (although it's more of an oversized shack, at this point).

Dolphins rookie De'Von Achane, who looked like the runaway Offensive Rookie of the Year earlier this season, looked to have aggravated his MCL injury upon his Week 11 return against the Raiders. Achane has a chance to return for Miami's Week 12 tilt with the Jets on Friday, but we wouldn't be surprised if the 7-3 'Fins play it safe and keep him out until he's back to 100 percent. Meanwhile, Miami placed backup Salvon Ahmed on IR with a foot injury, so Jeff Wilson Jr. could be back in play as a handcuff stash.

Bears veteran D'Onta Foreman injured his ankle in Week 11. He could miss some time now that Khalil Herbert and Roschon Johnson are both back in action for Chicago. The best runner on the Bears, however, is QB Justin Fields when he's active.

Texans back Dameon Pierce returned to practice late last week, but he remained out with his ankle injury against the Cardinals. We could see him return to the field this weekend, but for now, we're keeping him off our rankings until we hear more positive news. Either way, it seems Devin Singletary is the new RB1 in this breakout offense.

We'll be updating these standard RB rankings all week, so check back for the latest player movement.

Fantasy RB Rankings Week 12: Who to start, sit at running back

Rankings based on standard, non-PPR scoring

Rank Player

1 Christian McCaffrey, 49ers @ Seahawks

2 Austin Ekeler, Chargers vs. Ravens

3 Saquon Barkley, Giants vs. Patriots

4 David Montgomery, Lions vs. Packers

5 Jahmyr Gibbs, Lions vs. Packers

6 Tony Pollard, Cowboys vs. Commanders

7 Raheem Mostert, Dolphins @ Jets

8 Travis Etienne, Jaguars @ Texans

9 Josh Jacobs, Raiders vs. Chiefs

10 Breece Hall, Jets vs. Dolphins

11 Rhamondre Stevenson, Patriots @ Giants

12 Alvin Kamara, Saints @ Falcons

13 Isiah Pacheco, Chiefs @ Raiders

14 Brian Robinson Jr., Commanders @ Cowboys

15 Bijan Robinson, Falcons vs. Saints

16 Jonathan Taylor, Colts vs. Buccaneers

17 James Conner, Cardinals vs. Rams

18 D'Andre Swift, Eagles vs. Bills

19 Joe Mixon, Bengals vs. Steelers

20 Derrick Henry, Titans vs. Panthers

21 Rachaad White, Buccaneers @ Colts

22 Kyren Williams, Rams @ Cardinals

23 Alexander Mattison, Vikings vs. Bears

24 Gus Edwards, Ravens @ Chargers

25 Zach Charbonnet, Seahawks vs. 49ers

26 Javonte Williams, Broncos vs. Browns

27 AJ Dillon, Packers @ Lions

28 Jerome Ford, Browns @ Broncos

29 Devin Singletary, Texans vs. Jaguars

30 Kareem Hunt, Browns @ Broncos

31 James Cook, Bills @ Eagles

32 Jaylen Warren, Steelers @ Bengals

33 Najee Harris, Steelers @ Bengals

34 Khalil Herbert, Bears @ Vikings

35 Tyler Allgeier, Falcons vs. Saints

36 Chuba Hubbard, Panthers @ Titans

37 Ezekiel Elliott, Patriots @ Giants

38 Latavius Murray, Bills @ Eagles

39 Roschon Johnson, Bears @ Vikings

40 Joshua Kelley, Chargers vs. Ravens

41 Keaton Mitchell, Ravens @ Chargers

42 Ty Chandler, Vikings vs. Bears

43 Dameon Pierce, Texans vs. Jaguars

44 Royce Freeman, Rams @ Cardinals

45 Jeff Wilson Jr., Dolphins @ Jets

46 Rico Dowdle, Cowboys vs. Commanders

47 Antonio Gibson, Commanders @ Cowboys

48 Miles Sanders, Panthers @ Titans

49 Tyjae Spears, Titans vs. Panthers

50 Clyde Edwards-Helaire, Chiefs @ Raiders

51 Dalvin Cook, Jets vs. Dolphins

52 Zack Moss, Colts vs. Buccaneers

53 Kenneth Gainwell, Eagles vs. Bills

54 Tony Jones Jr., Cardinals vs. Rams

55 Elijah Mitchell, 49ers @ Seahawks

56 Jaleel McLaughlin, Broncos vs. Browns

57 Justice Hill, Ravens @ Chargers

58 Chase Edmonds, Buccaneers @ Colts

59 Boston Scott, Eagles vs. Bills

60 Tank Bigsby, Jaguars @ Texans

61 Jamaal Williams, Saints @ Falcons

62 Samaje Perine, Broncos vs. Browns

63 Matt Breida, Giants vs. Patriots

Week 12 RB fantasy projections, rankings from Draft Sharks

Draft Sharks projections for the new week will update every Tuesday and be constantly adjusted throughout the week

We're proud to offer SN Fantasy readers an exclusive look at Draft Sharks’ award-winning projections and rankings every week. To see Draft Sharks' Week 12 3D floor-to-ceiling projections for running backs -- plus get access to all of Draft Sharks' industry-leading tools -- become a Draft Sharks' member today at the link below!

TRY DRAFT SHARKS FREE: Dominate with exclusive tools, including Free-Agent Finder & Trade Navigator!