'Tis the season for horrors, and the Jaguars left New Orleans surviving a late scare against the Saints on "Thursday Night Football." '

Jacksonville improved to 5-2 on the season, as Doug Pederson's crew held off a late comeback attempt from New Orleans, emerging with a 31-24 victory. The win pushes the Jaguars' winning streak to four games, while the loss dropped the Saints' record to 3-4.

The Jaguars controlled a majority of the game, getting out to an early lead in the first half and entering the fourth quarter up 24-9. At the time, the Saints offense was completely out of sync, as quarterback Derek Carr had just thrown a pick-six to Foye Oluokun and was struggling to connect with any of his key weapons, outside of running back Alvin Kamara.

However, Trevor Lawrence and the Jags let the Saints stick around, failing to put away the opposition. It led to two fourth quarter touchdowns by New Orleans that tied the game with less than six minutes to go, and the momentum had fully shifted at Caesers SuperDome to the home side.

That was until Christian Kirk came through for the Jaguars. After the two sides exchanged punts, the wide receiver broke loose for a 44-yard touchdown, re-taking the lead for Jacksonville with 3:08 left to go.

The Saints nearly tied the game up in the final seconds of the game. Tight end Foster Moreau had a touchdown in his fingertips on third-and-goal, but he could not come up with the catch. A pass to Chris Olave on fourth down was broken up, as the Jags held on for the win.

POWER RANKINGS: Where Saints, Jaguars check in among NFL's best teams entering Week 7

The Sporting News provided updates and highlights from Jaguars vs. Saints on Week 7 "Thursday Night Football."

Jaguars vs. Saints score

1 2 3 4 F Jaguars 7 10 7 7 31 Saints 3 3 3 15 24

Jaguars vs. Saints live results, highlights from 'Thursday Night Football'

(All times Eastern)

Final: Jaguars 31, Saints 24

11:25 p.m. — Three QB kneels from Lawrence, and the Jaguars leave New Orleans with a win. Ultimately the offense for the Saints could not put things together until it was too little, too late. Jacksonville improves to 5-2, while New Orleans drops to 3-4.

11:23 p.m. — Carr targets Olave on the outside, but Buster Brown locks up the Saints wide receiver and it falls incomplete. That's going to do it, as the Saints come close to making an incredible comeback, but fall just short.

11:21 p.m. — Oh, so close for Moreau. On third-and-goal, the tight end is left wide open in the back left corner, Carr finds him, but it goes off Moreau's fingertips and incomplete. It'll be fourth down for the Saints with 25 seconds left.

11:19 p.m. — After an Olave catch picks up eight, Kamara rushes for four to get the Saints to the six-yard line. There's under a minute left in regulation with the Saints down seven.

11:17 p.m. — Kamara has been excellent tonight for the Saints, in both the passing and running game. He takes a handoff for 18 yards, giving New Orleans a first down at the Jacksonville 18-yard line.

11:12 p.m. — Carr hits Hill for 18 yards, then tosses two dump offs to Kamara for gains of nine and seven. The two-minute warning hits with the Saints having the ball at the Jaguars' 41-yard line.

Jaguars 31, Saints 24

11:12 p.m. — Touchdown! Kirk sends the SuperDome into silence, as he takes a short-yard pass from Lawrence and weaves through the Saints defense for a 44-yard touchdown. Jacksonville finally cracks through a New Orleans defense that had its number in the second half to retake the lead with 3:08 to go.

Christian Kirk is fast and the Jaguars have the lead 💯#JAXvsNO on Prime Video

Also available on #NFLPlus https://t.co/89nUeCngbn pic.twitter.com/SQfWTMpTUg — NFL (@NFL) October 20, 2023

11:06 p.m. — Just like that, the Saints are forced to punt after three plays, but the concern is Carr. As he scrambled to his right on third down, he appeared to reach for his groin after throwing the incomplete pass. He stayed down for a bit, spoke to the training staff, and eventually walked his way to the sidelines.

11:03 p.m. — The Jaguars pick up a first down, but are stopped on three straight plays and will have to punt. I mentioned this earlier, Jacksonville let New Orleans hang around and now are paying for it. The Saints have the ball with 4:30 to go.

Jaguars 24, Saints 24

10:57 p.m. — Touchdown! Bang-bang-TD. Carr tosses one for Thomas at the back of the end zone, and the receiver is able to stay inbounds for the score. New Orleans wasted no time at all getting down field and in the end zone. The Saints go for two, and Carr lofts one to a wide open Kamara to tie the game. After looking dead in the water, the Saints have come alive.

10:56 p.m. — Carr connects with Thomas on the first play of the drive for a gain of 17. He follows that up by finding Hill at the 18-yard line for the 19-yard reception.

10:54 p.m. — Turnover on downs! Lawrence gives it to Etienne Jr. on a read option, but the Saints wrap up by the running back before he can get the first down. Stop me if you've heard me say this — the Saints' defense is the sole reason this is remains a close game. This time, the unit sets up Carr and the offense at their own 47-yard line with 7:29 left.

A MASSIVE stop for the Saints defense on 4th and inches 😱#JAXvsNO on Prime Video

Also available on #NFLPlus https://t.co/89nUeCngbn pic.twitter.com/hkRxyrs29q — NFL (@NFL) October 20, 2023

10:53 p.m. — Etienne Jr. gets three straight runs, but on third down, he is tackled inches short of a first down. Pederson is electing to keep the offense out there.

10:50 p.m. — The Saints can't catch a break. The defense stops the Jaguars on third down, but Paulson Adebo is called for pass interference, giving Jacksonville the automatic first down. The pass looked high, so Adebo felt it was uncatchable, but the officials disagree.

10:47 p.m. — After a promising last drive, Carr and Co. get nothing generated and the drive ends in a three-and-out. Carr tried his first deep ball of the night, but it appeared Olave pulled up on the route, increasing the frustration of the Saints QB.

10:42 p.m. — Once again, it's the Saints defense that comes through for New Orleans. The unit gets Lawrence to scramble twice, but the Jaguars can't come up with a first down and are forced to punt. The only reason why the Saints are still in this game is because of Allen's defense.

Jaguars 24, Saints 16

10:38 p.m. — Touchdown! Hill, who got the Saints near the goal line, punches it in from a yard out, thanks to an excellent block from defensive lineman Khalen Saunders. By far, the best drive of the night for New Orleans, and the offense converts on fourth down to six points. Grupe doinks the extra point off the uprights and in to make it 24-16 with 14:21 left.

With DT Khalen Saunders lead blocking, Taysom Hill walks into the end zone 🙌#JAXvsNO on Prime Video

Also available on #NFLPlus https://t.co/89nUeCngbn pic.twitter.com/dsN6wkMGKb — NFL (@NFL) October 20, 2023

10:37 p.m. — The Saints toss it to Kamara, but he's chased down by the Evan Lloyd before getting over the end zone. New Orleans has to go for it on fourth down from a yard out.

End of the third quarter: Jaguars 24, Saints 9

10:33 p.m. — Kamara is denied twice from two yards out, and that's how the third quarter ends. The Saints have been held without a touchdown through the first three quarters, but are knocking on the door with third-and-one.

10:32 p.m. — Rayshawn Jenkins take a bad penalty in the end zone for the Jaguars, hitting Foster Moreau late on an incomplete pass. The Saints move up to just two yards out.

10:31 p.m. — Taysom Hill gets the call on back-to-back plays for the Saints. Taking it himself each time, he picks up gains of one and five to move the chains.

10:26 p.m. — Allen continues to be aggressive on fourth down. After a Kamara catch comes up two yards short, he takes a handoff on fourth down and moves the chains. New Orleans has the ball at the Jaguars' nine-yard line with just over two minutes to go in the quarter.

10:25 p.m. — This has been by far the Saints' best drives, and it's been up-tempo with Carr getting the ball quickly out of his hands.

10:17 p.m. — After the pick-six, Carr completes six passes in a row, and the Saints have made their way swiftly into Jacksonville territory.

Jaguars 24, Saints 9

10:17 p.m. — Pick-six! The woes on the New Orleans offense continue, as Carr forces a throw on third that's deflected up in the air and into the arms of Foye Oluokun. The Jaguars linebacker sprints all the way to the end zone, diving for the pylon. It's getting real ugly on the Saints side, with a frustrated Carr looking completely out of sync with his weapons.

Foye Oluokun makes a house call off the deflection ‼️ #JAXvsNO on Prime Video

Also available on #NFLPlus https://t.co/89nUeCngbn pic.twitter.com/6dwZB25nxD — NFL (@NFL) October 20, 2023

10:12 p.m. — An interesting play call for the Jaguars on third down just now. Needing six yards at their own 29, the call from the sidelines is a draw, and Etienne Jr. comes up less than a yard short of a first down. Pederson elects not to go for it, and the Jaguars will punt away. Jacksonville is playing a dangerous game, letting New Orleans stick around.

Jaguars 17, Saints 9

10:06 p.m. — Field goal! Grupes improves to three of four on the night, booting a 42-yarder. The Saints cut into the Jags' lead, making it a one-score content again.

10:06 p.m. — After Hill got the Saints down to the Jacksonville 23, a penalty on second down pushes New Orleans 10 yards back, and the offense can't move the chains. Once again, the Saints have to kick a field field.

10:02 p.m. — Taysom Hill hasn't been used really at all this game, but the QB/TE hybrid keeps a read option and barrels for a gain of six yards, down to the Jacksonville 23. For the first time since the opening drive, the Saints have been able to pick up multiple first downs and drive down the field, getting close to the red zone.

Taysom Hill still showing he can do a little bit of everything. @T_Hill4#JAXvsNO on Prime Video

Also available on #NFLPlus https://t.co/89nUeCngbn pic.twitter.com/EA5c1wWtX7 — NFL (@NFL) October 20, 2023

10:01 p.m. — The Saints needed half a yard, Kamara gave them 17. The Saints running back sprints downfield for a major gain on fourth down.

10 p.m. — The Saints can't convert on third down, coming up a half a yard short. However, Allen is keeping the offense out to go for it on fourth down. New Orleans is now one for nine tonight on third down.

9:58 p.m. — The second half is underway in New Orleans. The Saints get the ball to start the half, in desperate need of generating anything on offense.

End of first half: Jaguars 17, Saints 6

9:44 p.m. — Carr fumbles the ball, it's recovered by one of his lineman, and that's how the first half ends. A fitting end for the Saints, who could get nothing going on offense, leaving the field to boos from the New Orleans fans.

Jaguars 17, Saints 6

9:42 p.m. — Field goal! McManus sinks his first attempt of the night, extending the Jaguars lead to 11 with just 32 seconds left in the half. Pederson's aggression pays off, as the fake punt leads to three points.

9:41 p.m. — Call reversed! After review, the officials deem the ball hit the ground as Lattimore was trying to make the completion, ruling the play an incomplete pass rather than an interception. With it being fourth down, McManus comes out for a field goal.

9:38 p.m. — Interception! Marcus Lattimore comes up with a massive play for the Saints, picking off Lawrence down inside the 10-yard line with just 34 seconds to go in the half. Lawrence was looking for Agnew, but Lattimore dove in front of the receiver for the pick. The officials are going to review to see if Lattimore maintained possession, otherwise it may be an incomplete pass.

9:36 p.m. — Fake punt! Not so fast! Pederson dips into bag of tricks and calls for the fake punt. Logan Cooke connects with Tim Jones for a 17-yard gain, and the Jaguars keep possession. That took some stones on Pederson's part, but it pays off, giving Lawrence and the offense a chance to find the end zone before the end of the half.

9:35 p.m. — The Saints stop the Jaguars on third down, forcing yet another punt.

9:32 p.m. — Two completions, two first downs for the Jaguars. Most importantly, Kirk and Engram both got out of bounds, stopping the clock. The Jaguars have all three timeouts with under two minutes to go.

Jaguars 14, Saints 6

9:29 p.m. — Field goal! Grupe hits his second field goal of the night, and the Saints add another three points to their score.

9:29 p.m. — New Orleans electing for the points, as Grupe comes out for a 35-yard attempt.

9:26 p.m. — The third down struggles continue for the Saints. Carr scrambles on third-and-eight, but only picks up three yards. It's clear that Carr and his receivers aren't quite on the same page. As the two-minute warning hits, it will be fourth-and-five for the Saints.

9:24 p.m. — This time, Allen's aggressive decision works, as the Saints get the first down thanks to a 17-yard catch and run by Kamara.

9:23 p.m. — The boos are raining down at the SuperDome, as it's another failed third down for the Saints. However, they are going to go for it on fourth-and-three.

9:20 p.m. — The Saints defense comes through again for Dennis Allen and Co., forcing the second-straight, three-and-out for the Jaguars. A bad penalty by Antonio Johnson on the punt gives the Saints extra yards, as he runs into returner Rashid Shaheed. It's a 15-yard penalty, and New Orleans starts at the Jacksonville 46-yard line.

9:15 p.m. — Olave is the target again on third down, but Carr's pass attempt is broken up by Tre Herndon. The Saints have to punt the ball away as the second quarter reaches the halfway point, with 7:17 left in the half.

9:12 p.m. — On the first offensive play of the drive, Carr dumps it off to Kamara, who runs for a gain of 21 yards.

9:10 p.m. — The New Orleans defense comes up with a big stop, forcing the Jaguars to a three-and-out. The Saints get the ball back unscathed after failing on the fourth down attempt.

9:05 p.m. — The Saints cannot convert on fourth down, as Carr's pass attempt to Chris Olave is tipped away from the receiver. The Jaguars get the bal at their own 44.

9:05 p.m. — Darious Williams bats away a third down pass attempt to Michael Thomas, but Dennis Allen is staying aggressive, keeping the offense out on fourth-and-three.

9:03 p.m. — An 18-yard completion from Carr to Foster Moreau brings the Saints to their own 48-yard line.

Jaguars 14, Saints 3

8:58 p.m. — Touchdown! Etienne Jr. takes a pitch and races 17 yards down the sideline for the score, his second TD of the game. The running back has found the end zone six times in his last three games, as Jacksonville extends its lead early in the second quarter.

8:57 p.m. — If the knee is bothering Lawrence, it's hard to tell. The Jaguars QB escapes pressure in the pocket and takes off down field for a run of 26 yards, the second-longest run of his career.

8:55 p.m. — The Jaguars bring out a little razzle dazzle. Kirk takes a handoff, tosses it back to Lawrence and the QB finds Agnew for nine yards.

End of the first quarter: Jaguars 7, Saints 3

8:52 p.m. — Lawrence connects with Kirk for nine yards on third-and-three, and that's how the first quarter ends.

Jaguars 7, Saints 3

8:47 p.m. — Field goal! Grupe knocks down the 23-yard chip shot, and New Orleans is on the board with 1:26 left in the first quarter.

8:46 p.m. — Despite the excellent field position, the Saints cannot convert six yards out and instead have to settle for three points.

8:44 p.m. — A Kamara completion goes for seven yards, and the Saints have first-and-goal at the Jaguars six-yard line.

8:40 p.m. — Fumble! Tevaughn Campbell runs into Agnew on the punt, forcing the Jaguars returner to muff the ball and the Saints recover yet again. Back-to-back breaks for New Orleans, who takes over possession deep into Jacksonville territory with 3:36 left in the first quarter.

Jamal Agnew was ready to receive the punt but his own teammate came in and just completely took him out.



Some messy football.pic.twitter.com/UxavIZXbZf — Ari Meirov (@MySportsUpdate) October 20, 2023

8:40 p.m. — The Saints can't take advantage of the fumble, as the Jaguars force a three-and-out.

8:37 p.m. — Fumble! On the Jaguars first offensive play after the missed Saints field goal, Kirk loses control of the ball after securing a catch and the Saints come up with the recovery. It was Paulson Adebo that punched the ball out. New Orleans gets the ball right back at their own 41-yard line.

8:33 p.m. — Missed field goal! Grupe pushes his attempt to the right, and the Saints come up with nothing on their opening drive. The rookie has now missed three of his last five kicks.

8:33 p.m. — Jacksonville blitzes on third-and-seven and the pressure forces Carr to throw the ball away. New Orleans will have to settle for a 51-yard field goal attempt by rookie Blake Grupe.

8:29 p.m. — Carr uses his legs to pick up another first down and get across midfield. The Saints QB certainly isn't known for scrambling, but he gets the job done by rolling out to his right and rushing for a gain of 10 yards.

8:28 p.m. — The Saints narrowly avoid a three-and-out on their opening drive, as Derek Carr finds Alvin Kamara for a gain of five yards on third-and-4.

Jaguars 7, Saints 0

8:23 p.m. — Touchdown! Etienne Jr. barrels in from two yards out, and just like that, the Jaguars are on the board. Lawrence and Co. made it look easy against a Saints defense who had not given up an opening drive TD since last season. Brandon McManus' extra point is good, and it's a seven-point lead just 5:16 into the game for Jacksonville.

A statement opening drive from Jacksonville ends in an Etienne TD @swaggy_t1#JAXvsNO on Prime Video

Also available on #NFLPlus https://t.co/89nUeCngbn pic.twitter.com/Y0k3aMHhha — NFL (@NFL) October 20, 2023

8:22 p.m. — The speedy Jamal Agnew takes a reverse and races down to the Saints two-yard line. The Jaguars are threatening early.

The flip to Jamal Agnew gets the @Jaguars down to the 2.#JAXvsNO on Prime Video

Also available on #NFLPlus https://t.co/89nUeCngbn pic.twitter.com/AeSr88NtkK — NFL (@NFL) October 20, 2023

8:21 p.m. — The Jaguars keep the drive alive, as Lawrence finds Christian Kirk for 10 yards, picking up the fourth first down of the drive. Jacksonville is down to the New Orleans 16.

8:17 p.m. — A 21-yard completion to Evan Engram is followed by a dump off to Travis Etienne Jr., who races for a gain of 15 yards to get the Jaguars into Saints territory.

8:15 p.m. — The kickoff is away in New Orleans, and Week 7 is underway. Trevor Lawrence and the Jaguars start with the ball.

Pregame

7:56 p.m. — With Jamaal Williams returning tonight for New Orleans, it marks the first time this season that both Williams and Alvin Kamara are in the Saints backfield. Kamara missed the first three games of the season due to a suspension.

7:43 p.m. — The Jaguars enter Week 7 with a perfect 2-0 record as the away team. However, the Saints are 1-1 this season at home at the Caesars SuperDome.

7:19 p.m. — Here is a look at the inactives on each side for the game. Demario Davis is notably active for the Saints, giving New Orleans a boost to its defense, however, both starting tackles are out.

#Jaguars vs. #Saints inactives for Thursday Night Football, Week 7



Trevor Lawrence is officially active. pic.twitter.com/WVbHzkaxpt — FantasyPros (@FantasyProsNFL) October 19, 2023

7:05 p.m. — The Saints have had the Jaguars number historically. In seven matchups between the two franchises, New Orleans owns a record of 5-2 over Jacksonville, and are currently on a four-game winning streak. The last time these two squads met was in 2019, with the Saints winning a defensive battle 13-9 over the Jaguars.

6:52 p.m. — On the topic of injuries, Saints running back Jamaal Williams has been activated off injured reserves and is expected to play against the Jaguars. He has not played since Week 2 after suffering a hamstring injury.

Saints activated RB Jamaal Williams off injured reserve and he is expected to play tonight vs. the Jaguars. — Adam Schefter (@AdamSchefter) October 19, 2023

6:36 p.m. — No more need to speculate on Lawrence. The Jaguars QB is set to start against the Saints.

Jaguars HC Doug Pederson told me Trevor Lawrence will start tonight.



Lawrence just finished his 20-minute pregame workout where he showed good lateral movement making cuts and throwing on the run. He dapped up trainers + QB Mike McCoy with smile headed back into locker room. pic.twitter.com/CDV5prPTeu — Cameron Wolfe (@CameronWolfe) October 19, 2023

6:26 p.m. — Doug Pederson said earlier on Thursday that he expects QB Trevor Lawrence to start tonight, pending a pregame workout. Lawrence is now going through that regiment, so we'll see what the call is.

Trevor Lawrence doing dropbacks and throwing during pregame workout. Moving well. Jaguars HC Doug Pederson is watching from a distance without much worry. pic.twitter.com/rsVQDKp4Af — Cameron Wolfe (@CameronWolfe) October 19, 2023

What time is Jaguars vs. Saints tonight?

Date : Thursday, Oct. 19

: Thursday, Oct. 19 Time: 8:15 p.m. ET (7:15 p.m. CT)

The Week 7 edition of "Thursday Night Football," featuring the Saints and Jaguars, is set to begin at 8:15 p.m. ET. That will be the normal start time for all of Amazon's "TNF" games in 2023.

The game is taking place in New Orleans, which is located in the Central time zone. So, those in that market will be able to catch the came at 7:15 p.m. local time.

What channel is Thursday Night Football on tonight?

TV channel (Jacksonville) : WJAX (Channel 47)

: WJAX (Channel 47) TV channel (New Orleans) : WDSU (Channel 6)

: WDSU (Channel 6) Live stream: Amazon Prime Video | DAZN (in Canada)

Amazon Prime serves as the home of "Thursday Night Football" and will be for the next decade. The NFL agreed to a deal with the streaming giant to make it the home of the package for 11 years, so those looking to watch "TNF" nationally will need a subscription to Amazon Prime to watch the games.

That said, those in the local markets of the teams playing on "Thursday Night Football" can watch the contests without subscriptions to Amazon. CBS affiliate WJAX (Channel 47) will career the game to those in the Jacksonville area while viewers in the New Orleans market can catch the program on WDSU (Channel 6), an NBC affiliate.

Amazon's broadcast crew for "Thursday Night Football" will consist of Al Michaels (play-by-play), Kirk Herbstreit (color commentary) and Kaylee Hartung (sideline reporter). The trio is in their second season working together.

Viewers in Canada will not have to have Amazon Prime to access "Thursday Night Football" in 2023. They will be able to watch the games on DAZN.