Of the 16 AFC team MVPs at the season's midpoint, five are quarterbacks. At least two of them should be in the running for league MVP after the season. Meanwhile, a wideout who might be on his way to the greatest individual season at the position is his team's MVP through nine games. Here are Yardbarker's team-by-team MVPs. (Find Yardbarker's NFC team MVPs here.)

AFC East

BUFFALO BILLS | QB Josh Allen: Allen probably won't finish in the top three of NFL MVP balloting as he did last season, but his value to the Bills is immeasurable. Through nine games, he is on pace to set a career-high in completion rate (71.3%) and tops all QBs in QBR (75.3). Allen has virtually carried the offense by himself, accounting for 24 of the team's 28 offensive touchdowns.

MIAMI DOLPHINS | WR Tyreek Hill: Arguably the best wide receiver in the NFL, Hill has somehow reached a new level of dominance in his age-29 season. The seven-time Pro Bowler leads the NFL in receiving yards (1,076) and TD catches (eight). As long as the Dolphins maintain their success on offense down the stretch, Hill should earn Offensive Player of the Year honors. He's on pace to break Calvin Johnson's season record for receiving yards (1,964).



NEW YORK JETS | LB Quincy Williams: While his brother, Quinnen, may be the better-known Jets defender in the family, Williams — the AFC Defensive Player of the Month for October — is also making a name for himself. Aside from being the fifth-highest-rated linebacker in the NFL by Pro Football Focus, Williams is tied for 17th in tackles (74) and tied for ninth in TFLs (nine) among all defenders.

NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS | S Jabrill Peppers: There hasn't been much to get excited about in New England, but the versatile defensive back is a bright spot and a respected voice in the locker room. Peppers has 54 tackles — three for loss — one interception, one forced fumble and a team-leading six passes defended. For a team facing as many uncertainties as the Patriots are, Peppers is a solid piece to build around in the short term. — Colum Dell

AFC West

DENVER BRONCOS | CB Patrick Surtain II: In eight games, the 23-year-old budding star has one interception and eight passes defended, tied for 11th in the NFL. Don’t be surprised if he earns a second straight Pro Bowl nod.

KANSAS CITY CHIEFS | QB Patrick Mahomes: A shaky receiving corps hasn’t fazed Mahomes. He’s third in the NFL in passing yards (2,442), fourth in TD passes (17) and third in QBR (73). The 28-year-old might capture his third MVP, as oddschecker notes he’s favored to win the award again.

LAS VEGAS RAIDERS | Defensive end Maxx Crosby: Despite a weak supporting cast, Crosby thrives. He has 9.5 of the Raiders’ 24 sacks and is tied for the league lead in tackles for loss (13). If the two-time Pro Bowler keeps dominating, he will generate more Defensive Player of the Year buzz.

LOS ANGELES CHARGERS | WR Keenan Allen: The 31-year-old is the centerpiece of the offense and leads the team in yards receiving (720) and receptions (62). Through Week 9, Pro Football Focus gave him a receiving grade of 84.6, eighth among WRs. — Clark Dalton

AFC North

BALTIMORE RAVENS | QB Lamar Jackson: Jackson has inserted himself into the league MVP conversation during his team’s four-game win streak. The 2019 NFL MVP has thrown for 1,954 yards and nine touchdowns and posted 440 yards and five touchdowns rushing. He is the reason, once again, Baltimore is a Super Bowl contender.

CLEVELAND BROWNS | Defensive end Myles Garrett: Garrett could be leading the race for the Defensive Player of the Year. The No. 1 overall pick in 2017 is tied for the second-most sacks (9.5) and most forced fumbles (four) in the league. He also blocked a field-goal attempt in a Week 7 win over the Colts. He's the ringleader of a defense that allows the fewest yards per game (234.8).

CINCINNATI BENGALS | QB Joe Burrow: Battling a calf injury, Burrow had a rough start to the season. He appears fully recovered now, though, as the Bengals (5-3) have won four straight. During their win streak, Burrow has thrown for 1,133 yards, 10 touchdowns and just two interceptions.

PITTSBURGH STEELERS | Linebacker T.J. Watt: The Steelers are the first team in NFL history to be outgained by their opponents in each of their first eight games and have a winning record (5-3). It hasn’t been pretty to watch, but Pittsburgh always makes plays when needed. The player who seems to make the most is Watt. The 2021 NFL Defensive Player of the Year is tied for second-most sacks (9.5) in the league. He also has two forced fumbles, three fumble recoveries and one interception. — Aaron Becker

AFC South

HOUSTON TEXANS | QB C.J. Stroud: Stroud is having one of the best statistical rookie seasons of all time. He ranks in the top 10 in passing yards (2,270), touchdown passes (14) and passer rating (102.9), and has only thrown one interception. The Texans (4-4) aren’t close to a .500 team without him.

INDIANAPOLIS COLTS | RB Zack Moss: With Jonathan Taylor missing the first four weeks of the season, Moss stepped up in a big way. After not playing in Week 1, he rushed for 445 yards and scored four touchdowns over his next four games to help Indy win three of four and stay in the thick of the AFC South. Moss is second in the NFL in rushing, 37 yards behind San Francisco's Christian McCaffrey.

JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS | RB Travis Etienne: QB Trevor Lawrence hasn’t quite taken the step forward everyone thought he would, but fortunately for the Jags, Etienne is emerging as one of the top RBs in the league. He has rushed for multiple touchdowns in three of his past four games and scored a touchdown in five of the team’s six wins. Etienne ranks third the NFL in rushing touchdowns (seven) and sixth in rushing yards (583).

TENNESSEE TITANS | DT Jeffery Simmons: There haven’t been too many bright spots for the Titans, but Simmons continues to be a wrecking ball on the defensive line. He leads the team in tackles for loss (six) and ranks second in sacks (4.5). If not for Simmons, Tennessee’s defense would rank a heck of a lot lower than 20th in yards allowed per game (337.8). — Michael Gallagher