The Lions just needed to get themselves back in the win column after a blowout loss in Baltimore, and they did just that in front of their home fans on Monday night.

Detroit rolled to a 26-14 victory over the Raiders in a game that felt much more one-sided than the score indicates.

The Lions thoroughly outplayed the Raiders, out-gaining Las Vegas by 329 yards, but critical mistakes by Detroit left points on the board. The offense struggled to turn red zone opportunities into touchdowns in the first half, and two turnovers deep in Raiders territory -- including a pick-six by Jared Goff -- kept Las Vegas in the game in the second half.

MORE: What to know about Lions' retro 'Honolulu blue' helmets

Nonetheless, the Lions' defense dominated. The Raiders were abysmal on the offensive side of the ball, outside of a second-quarter touchdown drive led by Josh Jacobs. Jimmy Garoppolo completed just 10 passes, badly missing a wide-open Davante Adams on multiple occasions.

Adams was seen slamming his helmet down on the sideline in the fourth quarter, and it's tough to blame the star receiver after an 11-yard performance that could have been exponentially better with better quarterback play.

The story of the night was Lions rookie Jahmyr Gibbs, who finally broke through after entering the season with sky-high expectations. Tasked with leading the backfield in David Montgomery's absence, Gibbs exploded for 189 scrimmage yards and a touchdown in the win. It was the first 100-yard rushing performance of his career.

Meanwhile, Amon-Ra St. Brown notched his third consecutive 100-yard game despite entering Monday as questionable with an illness.

MORE: Why Davante Adams is unlikely to be traded before deadline

The Lions enter their bye in sole possession of the No. 2 seed in the NFC, while the Raiders drop their second consecutive game against an NFC North opponent and have what might be a must-win game against the Giants in Week 9 if they want any chance to linger in the AFC playoff race.

The Sporting News tracked live updates and highlights throughout the "Monday Night Football" matchup between the Raiders and Lions. Check out all of the key moments you might have missed.

Raiders vs. Lions final score

1 2 3 4 Final Raiders 0 7 7 0 14 Lions 3 13 7 3 26

Raiders vs. Lions results, highlights from 'Monday Night Football'

(All times Eastern)

Final: Lions 26, Raiders 14

11:15 p.m. — That'll do it! The Lions bounce back and move to 6-2 with the win over Las Vegas. Detroit left points on the board, but the Raiders were thoroughly outplayed in this one.

11:09 p.m. — The Lions get the ball back and will try to ice the game at this point.

11:08 p.m. — Adding insult to injury, Garoppolo is sacked for the sixth time tonight. It's 4th & 17.

11:07 p.m. — Davante Adams has had his way with Cameron Sutton at times tonight, and Garoppolo has just not made the throw each time. It happens again here on what would've been a game-changing play. Garoppolo has had a brutal night.

11:04 p.m. — Riley Patterson missed a 26-yard field goal attempt after making his first four attempts tonight. Strange. The Lions can't come away with points on that drive.

11:01 p.m. — What would've been a Reynolds touchdown is erased by a holding penalty. That does give the Lions a chance to erase some more time on the clock, though.

11:00 p.m. — Craig Reynolds, up to 66 yards, has the Lions on the verge of the end zone.

10:58 p.m. — Garoppolo is sacked AGAIN. It's Anzalone for the second time on the drive, and that sends the ball right back to the Lions.

10:56 p.m. — Now the Lions sack Garoppolo on back-to-back plays as Alex Anzalone and Alim McNeill come in to send the Raiders to 3rd & 28.

10:53 p.m. — Garoppolo hits Jakobi Meyers for a big 19 yards to give the Raiders something to work with.

10:51 p.m. — The Garoppolo-to-Adams connection is just not working tonight. Adams was all by himself downfield, and Garoppolo throws it well out of bounds.

Lions 26, Raiders 14

10:46 p.m. FIELD GOAL — 52 yards? No problem for Patterson, who extends the Lions' lead to 12.

10:45 p.m. — Kalif Raymond was set up for a big play, but Goff's throw was just a bit behind him. That will get Riley Patterson on the field for a 52-yard field goal try.

10:43 p.m. — Goff gets pushed forward on 4th & 1 to keep the Lions' drive alive. They're into Raiders territory, trying to ice this game.

10:36 p.m. — Gibbs is just wearing down this Raiders defense for chunks of yards. He's up to 179 scrimmage yards and has the Lions moving down the field again.

End of third quarter: Lions 23, Raiders 14

10:32 p.m. — Gibbs turns what looked like little or no gain into a first down. He has 126 yards on the ground.

10:31 p.m. — Alim McNeill sacks Garoppolo for an 8-yard loss, ending Las Vegas' drive. Aside from the second quarter drive dominated by Jacobs, the Raiders' offense has shown nothing tonight. Garoppolo has just 62 yards through nearly three quarters.

10:28 p.m. — Michael Mayer gets the Raiders' drive started with a big 19-yard gain. That's the rookie's first catch of the night.

Lions 23, Raiders 14

10:25 p.m. TOUCHDOWN — There goes Jahmyr Gibbs! It's the rookie's night. He takes off for a 27-yard touchdown with his blazing speed and has 149 scrimmage yards on the night. More importantly, he gives the Lions a two-possession lead.

10:23 p.m. — A pass interference call gives the Lions 18 yards and takes them well into Raiders territory after starting the drive with strong field position.

10:18 p.m. — The Lions quickly get the Raiders off the field, and a bad drop by Davante Adams on third down is the culprit. The throw was a bit low, but Adams still had it in his grasp for a second. Las Vegas will punt.

10:16 p.m. — It was hard to find a conclusive angle of what happened there, but Lions fans are making it known they think Reynolds was down. It doesn't matter. It's Raiders ball with a chance for Las Vegas to take the lead.

10:13 p.m. FUMBLE — For now, the Raiders force a fumble by Reynolds and instantly end the Lions' drive. Maxx Crosby ripped it right out of his arms. Was he down? That's what officials are taking a closer look at.

10:11 p.m. — Another first down by Gibbs, who has 116 scrimmage yards, and the Lions have 1st & Goal.

10:09 p.m. — Officials come out to measure whether Craig Reynolds got a first down...and he did. On the next play, Reynolds catches a pass from Goff for 12 yards. The Lions are in business on the verge of the red zone.

10:06 p.m. — The Lions have gotten over midfield with two early first downs as they try to steal the momentum back. St. Brown is up to 108 yards on the night.

Lions 16, Raiders 14

10:01 p.m. PICK-SIX — Marcus Peters picks off Goff and runs it 74 yards back for the touchdown! Amon-Ra St. Brown didn't have his eye on the throw from Goff, but Peters did. The Raiders are right back in this game.

10:00 p.m. — There goes Jahmyr Gibbs! The rookie breaks tackles for a bruising 24-yard run. He's up to 97 scrimmage yards tonight.

9:56 p.m. — Julian Okwara sacks Garoppolo on third down, forcing a Raiders punt. The Lions didn't want to let Las Vegas build any momentum to start the half, and mission accomplished.

9:55 p.m. — It's quickly 3rd & 9 to start this third quarter after Davante Adams unsuccessfully looks for a pass interference call.

End of first half: Lions 16, Raiders 7

9:39 p.m. — The Raiders run one play but elect to go to the half. They'll start the second half with the ball and could use at least some points on that drive if they want to stay in this game.

Lions 16, Raiders 7

9:36 p.m. TOUCHDOWN — LaPorta's great rookie season rolls on! The rookie picks up his fourth touchdown of the season and extends the Lions' lead. Detroit found success running the ball early, but that drive featured nice work from Goff. 16-7. Lions.

9:35 p.m. — LaPorta picks up a first down for the Lions, and now Dan Campbell is going to start using his timeouts with 31 seconds left in the half. Detroit is at the Raiders' 18-yard line.

9:33 p.m. — St. Brown picks up another first down for the Lions as they enter field goal range again. St. Brown is up to 94 yards in the first half after entering the day listed as questionable.

9:30 p.m. — What would've been a horsecollar penalty on a nice Gibbs run is offset by a holding call. The fans don't like it.

9:26 p.m. — There's a welcomed sight for Lions fans: Goff hits Jameson Williams for a 22-yard gain. Williams was held without a catch despite six targets in Baltimore last week.

9:25 p.m. — Crosby is doing so much more than just getting to the quarterback tonight. He wraps up Gibbs, the third time tonight he's had an explosive play on a ball-carrier.

9:21 p.m. TOUCHDOWN — That was a statement drive by the Raiders. Jacobs looked like the dominant runner he was last season and takes it in himself for the game's first touchdown.

9:20 p.m. — Davante Adams doesn't have a single catch tonight, but Jacobs has 12 touches. Right now, it's starting to work. The Raiders are set up with 1st & Goal.

9:19 p.m. — The Raiders are quickly into the red zone after another nice gain for Josh Jacobs.

9:17 p.m. — Las Vegas' offense is moving much smoother now as Austin Hooper picks up another first down. Hooper has two catches on this drive.

9:15 p.m. — It's back-to-back first downs for the Raiders, with the help of a 15-yard penalty on Aidan Hutchinson for a low block.

Lions 9, Raiders 0

9:11 p.m. FIELD GOAL — The Lions' drive fizzles almost instantly, so it's back to Riley Patterson's leg for another field goal. Detroit leads, 9-0.

9:09 p.m. — Momentum swings abound. St. Brown comes right back with a 24-yard catch to make up the lost yardage and much more.

9:08 p.m. — Maxx Crosby blows up another play, this time dropping Jameson Williams for a loss of six.

9:06 p.m. — Big play alert! Goff hits an open Amon-Ra St. Brown, who goes 44 yards to breathe life into the Lions' offense.

9:03 p.m. — The Raiders' offense continues to have nothing in the tank. Las Vegas gains four yards and is forced to punt after less than a minute with the ball.

Lions 6, Raiders 0

8:58 p.m. FIELD GOAL — Detroit was simply trying to draw the Raiders offsides. It didn't work. Riley Patterson's field goal is good, and the Lions extend their lead to six.

8:56 p.m. — Raymond makes up some yardage on fourth down but comes up about eight yards short of the goal line. The Lions may be considering going for it...

8:55 p.m. — The Lions are moving backwards after a holding call on Taylor Decker.

End of first quarter: Lions 3, Raiders 0

8:51 p.m. — Goff comes under heavy pressure on 3rd & 11 but finds a wide open Kalif Raymond for the first down. The Lions are into the red zone.

8:49 p.m. — There's Amon-Ra St. Brown. Goff hits him on back-to-back plays for a total of 20 yards.

8:47 p.m. — Garoppolo's fourth down pass goes to no man's land after Hunter Renfrow falls down. The Lions will be set up not too far from field goal range.

8:46 p.m. — The Raiders will go for it on 4th & 2 from about midfield...

8:43 p.m. — The Raiders' defense rises to the challenge and forces a quick three-and-out. Detroit is punting for the first time tonight.

8:38 p.m. INTERCEPTION — And just like that... Jimmy Garoppolo turns it over. That can't happen. Kerby Joseph picks it off just in front of the end zone and gets the ball back to the Lions' offense two plays after the fumble.

8:36 p.m. FUMBLE — A big mistake from Josh Reynolds, who loses the ball after a catch and sees it quickly scooped up by the Raiders. It's Las Vegas ball deep in Lions territory.

8:33 p.m. — Garoppolo fights hard for the first down, using his legs and taking a big hit, but he comes up a yard short. The Raiders will punt.

8:31 p.m. — A flag flies on the Raiders' first offensive snap, but it's picked back up as Josh Jacobs takes a pass 12 yards for a quick first down.

Lions 3, Raiders 0

8:26 p.m. FIELD GOAL — The Lions' running game stalls out, but not before they worked their way into field goal range. Riley Patterson drills one from 44 yards out to put Detroit in front early.

8:22 p.m. — With Gibbs getting a breather, Craig Reynolds comes in and delivers a bruising 11-yard run. The Lions are bullying their way down the field.

8:21 p.m. — Is this the Jahmyr Gibbs game? He already has six touches and just ran his way to another first down.

8:19 p.m. — Gibbs picks up another Lions first down on a catch-and-run. He's heavily involved in the offense early on with David Montgomery out.

8:18 p.m. — Goff hands off to Jahmyr Gibbs on the first two snaps of the night, and he hits Sam LaPorta on third down to convert. Nice start for the Lions' rookie class tonight.

8:15 p.m. — The Lions will start with the ball, and we are underway!

8:07 p.m. — As the broadcast points out, this is a homecoming for Michigan native Maxx Crosby. The play of him and fellow Michigan native Aidan Hutchinson will be pivotal tonight.

7:56 p.m. — Josh Jacobs hasn't averaged more than 3.6 yards per carry in a single game this season. Can he get going against a strong Lions run defense? It'll be tough to win without at least some production from the former first-rounder.

7:40 p.m. — On that note... Harlow will be performing at halftime of the Lions' Thanksgiving game next month.

Just announced! @jackharlow will be the performer for our Thanksgiving Halftime Show powered by @Verizon!



📰 https://t.co/oUNhlBkWe3 pic.twitter.com/vMCAMpCFfk — Detroit Lions (@Lions) October 30, 2023

7:20 p.m. — Jack Harlow is in the house supporting the Lions.

.@JackHarlow repping the Honolulu blue 🦁



Catch his performance at the @Lions Thanksgiving Halftime Show powered by @Verizon pic.twitter.com/haMpQ95y5U — NFL (@NFL) October 30, 2023

6:49 p.m. — Brian Hoyer is inactive tonight, so Aidan O'Connell is the Raiders' backup quarterback behind Jimmy Garoppolo

6:45 p.m. — Lions WR Amon-Ra St. Brown is officially active after being listed as questionable with an illness.

6:25 p.m. — This could be an important one: Raiders K Daniel Carlson will play tonight after being listed as questionable with a groin injury. Even more important will be whether Carlson's injury changes Josh McDaniels' decision-making.

Raiders’ kicker Daniel Carlson, listed as questionable for tonight due to a groin injury, will be Las Vegas’ kicker tonight, per league source. — Adam Schefter (@AdamSchefter) October 30, 2023

What time is Raiders vs. Lions tonight?

Date: Monday, Oct. 30

Monday, Oct. 30 Time: 8:15 p.m. ET

Raiders vs. Lions is set to kick off at 8:15 p.m. ET at Ford Field in Detroit, Mich. for "Monday Night Football."

The Lions have won four of their last five matchups with the Raiders, though Las Vegas got the better of them when they last met in 2019.

MORE: Dan Campbell explains why Lions 'probably needed' blowout loss to Ravens

What channel is Raiders vs. Lions on tonight?

Joe Buck and Troy Aikman will be on the call for Raiders vs. Lions, with Lisa Salters providing sideline reports for the matchup.

For cord-cutters, Fubo carries the ESPN family of networks, as well as ABC, CBS, Fox, NBC and NFL Network, meaning you will be able to catch nationally televised games throughout the 2023 season. Fubo also offers a free trial.

Viewers in Canada can catch the matchup on DAZN, which carries NFL Game Pass.