Brock Purdy threw for 314 yards and four touchdowns, Deebo Samuel scored three TDs and Eagles quarterback Jalen Hurts was checked for a concussion in the San Francisco 49ers’ 42-19 win over Philadelphia on Sunday.

The fiery NFC championship game rematch also featured 49ers’ touchdowns on six straight possessions and a pair of ejections that showed this year’s title game may not run again through Philly, after all.

49ers' Dre Greenlaw has been disqualified from tonight's game after this incident on the Eagles sideline. pic.twitter.com/2N4W17N8u9 — FOX Sports: NFL (@NFLonFOX) December 3, 2023

The 49ers (9-3) left Philly 10 months ago battered in the NFC championship game behind injuries to Purdy and his backup, and they never stood a chance in a 31-7 loss. The 49ers spent an offseason chirping at the Birds – Samuel called one Eagles cornerback “trash” – and then entered the Linc as a rare betting favorite against a 10-win team at home.

The Eagles (10-2) suffered a scare when Hurts jogged off the field in the fourth and went straight to the locker room. He was cleared to play and returned to action with about 10 minutes left. It was not immediately clear when Hurts was injured.

By the time last season’s NFL MVP runner-up returned, the Eagles trailed 35-13 and were on their way toward their first home loss of the season. Hurts did hit DeVonta Smith for a two-yard TD on his return drive. He finished 26-of-45 passing for 298 yards. Purdy put the finishing touches on the win with a 46-yard TD to Samuel.

Perhaps all that braggadocio paid off for the 49ers. Hard feelings spilled into the game, highlighted by a scrap in the third quarter that got 49ers linebacker Dre Greenlaw and the the Eagles’ chief security officer tossed.

Dom DiSandro, a constant presence on the Eagles’ sideline, pulled Greenlaw off Smith after a reception. Greenlaw popped up and reached over two officials to touch DiSandro’s face with a closed fist. Greenlaw was ejected. DiSandro, a cult hero in Philly for his ever-present backup when Eagles are out in public, also was told to leave and walked to the locker room to a roaring ovation.

Los Angeles Chargers 6-0 New England Patriots

Justin Herbert threw for 212 yards and set up a pair of Cameron Dicker field goals that were all the Los Angeles Chargers (5-7) needed for their first shutout in six years. Keenan Allen came back from a thigh injury to catch five passes for 58 yards. But the only scoring the Chargers could manage was a pair of 38-yard field goals in the second quarter. New England made a quarterback switch, benching Mac Jones in favor of Bailey Zappe. But the Patriots (2-10) still lost their fifth straight game. For the first time in franchise history, the Patriots have been shut out at home twice in a season. Zappe was sacked five times – two by Khalil Mack, giving him a career-high 15 for the season and 99 in his career. Zappe was 13 for 25 for 141 yards; he did avoid an interception for the first time in three games, the previous two in relief of Jones.

Tyreek Hill had two touchdowns among his 157 yards receiving to help the Miami Dolphins rout the Washington Commanders 45-15. The AFC East-leading Dolphins are 9-3 for the first time since 2001. Tua Tagovailoa was turnover-free after giving the ball away four times over the past two games. De’Von Achane ran for two touchdowns in his return after missing five of the past six with a knee injury. The Commanders have lost four in a row. Washington’s Sam Howell threw a pick-6 for a third consecutive game.

Detroit Lions 33–28 New Orleans Saints

Sam LaPorta had career highs of nine catches for 140 yards, including an early touchdown and a crucial first-down snag in the final minutes, and the Detroit Lions beat the reeling New Orleans Saints. Detroit improved to 9-3, their best record through 12 games since they went 10-2 in 1962. The Saints lost quarterback Derek Carr in the fourth quarter to back, shoulder and head injuries. Carr was hurt on a penalized hit by Bruce Irvin. New Orleans fell to 5-7, behind first-place Atlanta in the NFC South.

Kansas City Chiefs 19-27 Green Bay Packers

The Green Bay Packers picked up their fourth win in five games as they beat the defending Super Bowl champions. The 6-6 Packers are now in the NFC wildcard places after Sunday night’s win.

Denver Broncos 17-22 Houston Texans

Nico Collins had a career-high 191 yards receiving and a fourth-quarter touchdown, and Jimmie Ward intercepted Denver’s Russell Wilson in the end zone with nine seconds left to left to help the Houston (7-5) Texans hold on for a win over the Broncos. Ward leapt in front of intended receiver Lucas Krull to secure the fourth victory in five games for Houston and snap a five-game winning streak for Denver (6-6). Wilson was intercepted a season-high three times, all of them after halftime. Derek Stingley Jr had the first two picks for the Texans. Rookie CJ Stroud threw for 274 yards for Houston.

Indianapolis Colts 31-28 Tennessee Titans

Gardner Minshew threw a four-yard touchdown pass to Michael Pittman with 2:31 left in overtime and the Indianapolis Colts (7-5) beat the Tennessee Titans (4-8) for their fourth straight victory. The Colts had to score a touchdown after Nick Folk made a 46-yard field goal with 4:19 left in overtime to put Tennessee up. Tennessee lost their first true home game this season and have yet to win consecutive games. The Titans blew a 17-7 lead. Nick Folk missed his first extra point this season with 5:26 left in regulation, which would have put Tennessee up 26-25.

skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to Soccer with Jonathan Wilson Free weekly newsletter Jonathan Wilson brings expert analysis on the biggest stories from European soccer Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion

Miami Dolphins 45–15 Washington Commanders

Tyreek Hill had two touchdowns among his 157 receiving yards to help the Miami Dolphins rout the Washington Commanders (4-9). The AFC East-leading Dolphins are 9-3 for the first time since 2001. Tua Tagovailoa was turnover-free after giving the ball away four times over the past two games. De’Von Achane ran for two touchdowns in his return after missing five of the past six with a knee injury. The Commanders have lost four in a row. Washington’s Sam Howell threw a pick-six for a third consecutive game.

Atlanta Falcons 13-8 New York Jets

Desmond Ridder threw a 20-yard touchdown pass to MyCole Pruitt and the Atlanta Falcons took over sole possession of first place in the NFC South by slogging their way to an ugly victory over the punchless New York Jets.

The Falcons (6-6) have back-to-back wins for the first time since opening the season with victories over Carolina and Green Bay. Atlanta entered tied atop the division with New Orleans, who lost to Detroit.

But this game appealed only to fans of sloppy play, punting and penalty flags. The Jets (4-8) got an early safety but couldn’t get anything going – again – on offense in losing their fifth straight game. New York even pulled quarterback Tim Boyle and replaced him with Trevor Siemian in the fourth quarter to try to provide a spark, but it was more of the same misery in what appeared a half-filled MetLife Stadium.

Cleveland Browns 19–36 Los Angeles Rams

Matthew Stafford threw three touchdown passes, Puka Nacua became the first Rams rookie wide receiver to reach 1,000 yards in a season, and Los Angeles extended their winning streak to three games. The Rams have won three straight for the first time since winning the Super Bowl after the 2021 season. At 6-6, they are back in the playoff race after dropping three straight before their bye week. Joe Flacco was 23 of 44 for 254 yards with two touchdowns and an interception in his Browns debut. Cleveland fell to 7-5 and occupy the final playoff spot in the AFC.

Arizona Cardinals 24–10 Pittsburgh Steelers

James Conner ran for 105 yards and a pair of touchdowns against his old team as the Arizona Cardinals beat the Pittsburgh Steelers. It was the Cardinals’ first win at Pittsburgh since 1969. Arizona took control late in the first half with a 99-yard touchdown drive that ended with a five-yard strike from Kyler Murray to Trey McBride. The Cardinals led the rest of the way, enduring a pair of lengthy delays due to severe weather. The Steelers lost starting quarterback Kenny Pickett to an ankle injury late in the first half and scored their only touchdown in garbage time.

Carolina Panthers 18–21 Tampa Bay Buccaneers

Tampa Bay’s Mike Evans scored on a 75-yard reception and joined Jerry Rice as the only players in NFL history to string together 10 consecutive seasons with 1,000-plus yards receiving. Evans finished with seven receptions for 162 yards, increasing his season totals to 61 catches for 1,012 yards and 10 touchdowns. Rice has the league record of 11 straight seasons with more than 1,000 yards receiving. The Bucs won for only the second time in the past eight games. Carolina scored late to pull within a field goal, but No 1 overall draft pick Bryce Young threw an interception to end any chance of coming from behind to win in the Panthers’ debut under interim coach Chris Tabor.