The 2019 Rugby World Cup final between England and South Africa was one of many firsts: the game itself capped off a sensational tournament played outside of the sport's traditional strongholds for the first time; it was the first final in which South Africa scored a try, and by full-time, the 32-12 score in the Springboks' favour sealed a record-equalling third title for the Rainbow Nation.

Fast forward four years, and South Africa once again prepare to take on England in an all-or-nothing match to decide which nation gets a shot at World Cup glory — but this time around, the pair meet in the semi-finals of the 2023 tournament, rather than the decider.

That won't make an ounce of difference for either camp, though, as these two long-time rivals prepare for a battle that could re-define the definition of a 'physical encounter.'

The #Springboks are gearing up for another tough challenge this week with a semi-final clash against England 🇿🇦🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿#StrongerTogether #RWC2023 pic.twitter.com/HLSnnjWggB — Springboks (@Springboks) October 18, 2023

England are the only side still competing who are yet to lose a game, and that will stand them in good stead coming into this semi-final. Dominant wins over Argentina, Japan and Chile sealed passage to the last eight, and after being given an almighty scare by Samoa in their final pool match, England overcame a Fijian fightback in Marseille to triumph 30-24. Despite being outscored by three tries to two, captain Owen Farrell kicked 20 points, sending his side into the last four at the expense of 2023's breakout stars.

The Springboks have done it tough, too, having already faced two of the tournament favourites on their way to the semi-finals. Comfortable defeats of Scotland, Romania and Tonga couldn't mask the disappointment of the 13-8 loss to Ireland, which consigned South Africa to second in Pool B. However, with Ireland sent home by the All Blacks in the quarters, the Bokke showed their World Cup mettle to edge the hosts 29-28 at the Stade de France, sneaking past Les Bleus in one of the best games of rugby you're ever likely to see.

The last time Cheslin Kolbe played England at a Rugby World Cup... 🇿🇦 🏆#RWC2023 | #ENGvRSA pic.twitter.com/Riw2uaSaKa — Rugby World Cup (@rugbyworldcup) October 19, 2023

Both sides' journeys have seen twists, turns, and bumps in the road, but it's led them both to within 80 minutes of a Rugby World Cup final. England will no doubt be looking to echo the spirit of 2019, when they beat the All Blacks 19-7 to reach the final, but in South Africa, they face a side who have taken their game to new heights just to reach the semis.

MORE: 2023 Rugby World Cup final: Details, kick-off time and every team's route

What time does England vs South Africa kick off?

England and South Africa face off in the 2023 Rugby World Cup's second semi-final, played at the Stade de France in Saint-Denis, France. The game kicks off at 9 p.m. local time on Saturday, October 21, 2023.

Here are the kick-off times for this game around the world:

Location Date Time USA Sat, Oct. 21 3:00 p.m. ET Canada Sat, Oct. 21 3:00 p.m. ET Australia Sun, Oct. 22 6:00 a.m. AEDT UK Sat, Oct. 21 8:00 p.m. BST New Zealand Sun, Oct. 22 8:00 a.m. NZDT India Sun, Oct. 22 12:30 a.m. IST Singapore Sun, Oct. 22 3:00 a.m. SGT Malaysia Sun, Oct. 22 3:00 a.m. MYT Hong Kong Sun, Oct. 22 3:00 a.m. HKT

England vs South Africa live stream, TV channel

TV networks worldwide will be showing all 48 matches at the tournament live, including many on free-to-air television.

On social platforms alone, video content from the Rugby World Cup and organisers World Rugby drew more than 2.1 billion views in 2019 — almost six times the previous figure.

TV channel Streaming USA — Peacock Canada TSN TSN+ UK ITV ITV X Australia Channel 9 Stan Sport, 9Now New Zealand Sky GO Sky GO India — Fan Code Hong Kong BeIN Sports BeIN Sports Malaysia BeIN Sports BeIN Sports Singapore BeIN Sports BeIN Sports

MORE: Every single team to have lifted the Rugby World Cup trophy

England vs South Africa lineups, team news

"The start is crucial, the end is vital..."



- Steve Borthwick explains changing 3️⃣ of his England starters for Saturday's Rugby World Cup semi-final, from Liam Heagney 👨‍💻 in Paris. #RWC2023 #ENGvRSA #EnglandRugby



Click below for more ⤵️ https://t.co/LeUuw4kPfP — RugbyPass (@RugbyPass) October 19, 2023

Marcus Smith hardly put a foot wrong at fullback against Fiji, but the world champions are an entirely different proposition for England to deal with at the back. The high-ball security and hulking frame of Freddie Steward returns to the No. 15 jersey in one of three changes, while at inside centre, Manu Tuilagi starts hoping to repeat his heroics of four years ago, when his early try in a dominant semi-final performance took England past the All Blacks.

England's other two changes come in the tight five, with Steve Borthwick making some big calls ahead of this game. Joe Marler starts ahead of vice-captain Ellis Genge at loosehead prop, and Ollie Chessum is replaced in the second-row by George Martin. The latter is winning only his seventh England cap but gets the starting nod alongside Maro Itoje, with Genge, Chessum and the rest of the replacements hoping to make an impact sizeable enough to overcome the Springboks' infamous 'bomb squad'.

Their time is now 🙌



Here is the @EnglandRugby team to take on reigning champions South Africa in the semi-final in Paris#RWC2023 | #ENGvRSA pic.twitter.com/nkf6rXBPUU — Rugby World Cup (@rugbyworldcup) October 19, 2023

England starting XV: Freddie Steward, Jonny May, Joe Marchant, Manu Tuilagi, Elliot Daly, Owen Farrell, Alex Mitchell; Joe Marler, Jamie George, Dan Cole, Maro Itoje, George Martin, Courtney Lawes, Tom Curry, Ben Earl.

England replacements: Theo Dan, Ellis Genge, Kyle Sinckler, Ollie Chessum, Billy Vunipola, Danny Care, George Ford, Ollie Lawrence.

The Springboks are unchanged from that epic quarter-final with France, having all played their part as Jacques Nienaber's side hung on in the second half. The contribution of backs Kurt-Lee Arendse, Damian de Allende and Cheslin Kolbe saw all three cross for first-half tries, with Kolbe's coming off the back of a charged-down conversion from France's Thomas Ramos. Preventing those two points proved crucial in the end.

The key contribution, though, came from Eben Etzebeth, who bulldozed his way over to score the only five-pointer of the second half and wrestle the game back into South African hands. He and Franco Mostert pack down together in the second row, while hooker Bongi Mbonambi, utility Deon Fourie, veteran Duane Vermeulen and the devilish Kwagga Smith will all be looking to back up superb quarter-final performances to take the Springboks to a second consecutive World Cup final.

South Africa starting XV: Damian Willemse, Kurt-Lee Arendse, Jesse Kriel, Damian de Allende, Cheslin Kolbe, Manie Libbok, Cobus Reinach; Steven Kitshoff, Bongi Mbonambi, Frans Malherbe, Eben Etzebeth, Franco Mostert, Siya Kolisi, Pieter-Steph du Toit, Duane Vermeulen.

South Africa replacements: Deon Fourie, Ox Nche, Vincent Koch, RG Snyman, Kwagga Smith, Faf de Klerk, Handre Pollard, Willie le Roux.

England vs. South Africa betting odds, prediction

The last time these two sides met was a tumultuous period to say the least, particularly for English rugby. South Africa's dominant 27-13 victory at Twickenham proved to be the last game in charge for Eddie Jones, the coach who had taken England to the 2019 World Cup final. In his place, Steve Borthwick was hired, and he's just one game away from repeating that feat.

England's form at this tournament has been perfect — at face value. Argentina, Japan, Chile, Samoa and Fiji have all provided highlights — Los Pumas are also in the semi-finals — and England have beaten all of them. However, only Japan and Chile were defeated with bonus points, and the narrow wins over both Samoa and Fiji in their last two games showed that England are certainly gettable.

In short, this semi-final requires a huge step up in quality for Borthwick's side, and that's why we think that the Springboks will be victorious at the Stade de France. South Africa have already shown they can match, and beat, the world's best, and we think that they'll do the latter in Saint-Denis.