The Bears' prayers were nearly answered on a game-ending Hail Mary. Instead, Cleveland fans exhaled as their team came away with an improbable win against Chicago.

Justin Fields and the Bears had the ball at the Cleveland 45 trailing by three with five seconds left on the clock. There was no time for a play and a field goal without any timeouts to try for a shorter kick.

Chicago's only hope of winning the game — and keeping its surging playoff trending up — would rest on a Hail Mary, a play so dubbed because it takes a miracle to succeed.

The Bears nearly had their miracle. The ball had the distance and it was tipped in the air several times and began to fall into the arms of Bears receiver Darnell Mooney, who was falling toward the endzone turf. He had his hands on it as it began to fall into his chest.

The ball deflected off his hands and legs and ultimately into the waiting hands of safety D'Anthony Bell, who made the catch and slid to the ground to end the game and seal the Browns' 20-17 win.

"It would've been crazy," Mooney said after the game. "I mean, how many times you see a Hail Mary work and actually fall into, being able to make the catch? It's tough. I wish I could've had it, but I mean it is what it is."

MORE: Jets' offensive line issues, playoff elimination could end Rodgers' comeback attempt

The balance of the game was suspended in the air as the ball deflected from Bear to Brown. Cleveland tight end David Njoku had the same reaction as likely just about any fan watching the game in the stands or at home.

"I damn near s— myself, dog," Njoku said, per The Athletic's Zac Jackson.

The Bears' sideline appeared convinced it had won. Fields said that as the ball began to fall into Mooney's hands, the Chicago sideline began to erupt before realizing the ball would not be ending in Bears' hands.

Fields' counterpart, Joe Flacco, could only watch on the jumbotron as the play unfolded. He had just driven the Browns to the go-ahead score the drive before. In his 16 years in the NFL, he's seen a lot, and he knew to hold off on any celebration until the game was official.

"When you watch and or are a part of all the games that go on every week, you know not to get excited until that clock hits zero," Flacco said. "There's so many things that can happen, whether we've been a part of it or whether like I said you've seen it on Sundays just watching TV so believe me I was over there and guys want to come up and congratulate and things like that and I'm just sitting there waiting for that clock to hit zero."

MORE: Updated NFL playoff picture in Week 15

Browns edge rusher Myles Garrett was on the field as one of the few players at the line of scrimmage, focusing more on pressuring Fields than picking him off. And when Fields got the throw off, he, too, became a spectator.

"Shoot, too good of a view," Garrett said. "He kinda looked at me just made sure I was far enough and then tossed it up and I was like, 'Please, Lord, don't let us be on one of these YouTube compilations.'"

It had been a wild ending to the game. Chicago had led 17-7 heading into the fourth quarter, but on successive drives, the Browns scored a field goal to open the fourth quarter, scored a game-tying touchdown with 3:08 left in the contest. Cleveland forced a three-and-out, then drove down the field in eight plays to kick a go-ahead field goal with 32 seconds left, burning all of Chicago's timeouts in the process.

The Bears got a bit of life when Tyler Scott caught a short pass from Fields and raced up the right sideline 30 yards to move up to Cleveland's 45. But after back-to-back incompletions, the Bears were forced to try for the Hail Mary rather than kick the long field goal.

"At the end of the game, I loved the way our guys battled at the end," Bears coach Matt Eberflus said. "And what a nice play by T Scott to put us in position and, again, we were just too far back. We ended up throwing the Hail Mary at the end and we had a chance there too, that's just about focus and concentration at the very end and making a really good play."

Chicago had plenty of other issues that contributed to coming up short to the Browns. The Bears' only touchdowns came when an interception spotted Chicago at the Browns' 1-yard line and another on a pick-six. The offense went three-and-out eight times. And rather than try for a go-ahead, 54-yard field goal, the Bears opted for a Hail Mary from the Browns' 37 with no time left in the first half, leading to Fields' first interception. The only two Chicago turnovers came on Fields' Hail Mary tries.

The loss was also particularly crushing for a team that had won back-to-back games, with a pair of wild-card contenders in the Vikings and Packers losing this weekend. But dropping to 5-9 is a crushing blow to Chicago's playoff hopes and solidifies it will be another season of a sub-.500 record in the Windy City.