The best sports betting sites in the country are focused on Vermont where the launch of legal online sports betting is now scheduled for January 2024. Once they do, they'll all be fighting for market share with exclusive Vermont sportsbook bonuses and promotions, including deposit match bonuses, bonus bets, first bet offers and more.

Typically all you’ll have to do is sign up for a new account with a Vermont online sportsbook to become eligible to receive the welcome bonuses, although in some cases you'll need to enter promo codes when registering to receive the offers. After that, you can continue to claim other ongoing Vermont sportsbook promotional offers.

Here’s a rundown of everything you need to know about the different sportsbook bonuses and promos coming to Vermont and how to claim them.

Vermont sportsbook prelive offers

Some Vermont sportsbooks are already offering "prelive" offers ahead of their launches. See below for the latest Vermont sportsbook prelive offers.

Top 5 Vermont sportsbook bonuses

Here are the best sportsbook bonuses & promotions from the top online sportsbooks anticipated to launch in Vermont.

Sportsbook Promo Code Welcome Offer Prelive Offer (if avail.) FanDuel Sportsbook Use Link Bet $5, Get $200 in Bonus Bets $100 in Bonus Bets DraftKings Sportsbook Use Link Get up to $1,200 in bonuses $200 in Bonus Bets BetMGM Sportsbook SPORTSPICK $1,500 in Bonus Bets TBD Fanatics Sportsbook TBD TBD TBD ESPN Bet Sportsbook TBD TBD TBD

Best Vermont sportsbook promo codes

Vermont's new online sports betting law authorizes up to six sites to launch in the state. Five operators applied for licenses, and as of today FanDuel, DraftKings and Fanatics are already scheduled to launch on Jan. 11, 2024. BetMGM and ESPN Bet are also among the applicants, making them possible candidates to launch in Vermont in the new year as well. Here are details regarding those five online sportsbooks and their welcome offers.

FanDuel Vermont promo code

Vermont already knows FanDuel thanks to its daily fantasy sports site. FanDuel Sportsbook is one of the most popular across the US, and FanDuel has already applied for a license to launch in Vermont. FanDuel has a great welcome offer inviting new sign-ups simply to make an initial $5 wager and get back $200 in Bonus Bets.

Meanwhile, for Vermont bettors FanDuel is running an Early Sign Up Special that gets you an extra $100 in Bonus Bets for signing up early between now and Jan. 10, 2024. That means you can receive a total of $300 in Bonus Bets to get you started at FanDuel Sportsbook Vermont. You can read more about FanDuel Sportsbook Vermont's prelive offer here.

You can bet on around two dozen different sports at FanDuel. The site offers lots of props, futures, alternate lines, and popular premade same-game parlays. There are lots of ongoing promos, too, like profit boosts, free pools, pick-em contest, special “no sweat” bets and more.

Here are more details of that FanDuel Sportsbook prelive & welcome offers:

Use the links on this page to create your FanDuel Sportsbook account.

to create your FanDuel Sportsbook account. Register before Jan. 10, 2024 at 11:59 p.m. ET and receive $100 in Bonus Bets available to use on the Jan. 11 launch day

and receive available to use on the Jan. 11 launch day Once the site goes live, make a first deposit of at least $10 into your FanDuel account and place a qualifying bet of at least $5 .

into your FanDuel account and place a qualifying . Whether your bet wins or loses, you receive $200 in Bonus Bets .

. You can use your Bonus Bets in whatever increments you like, but you have to use your Bonus Bets within seven days or they will expire.

or they will expire. Winning wagers with Bonus Bets award the winnings only and not the bet amounts.

FanDuel Sportsbook welcome offer pros and cons

Pros

Unlike other offers, you don’t have to risk much of your own money to receive the bonus — just $5 to get $200 in Bonus Bets

Also unlike other offers, it doesn’t matter if your initial wager wins or loses, you get the bonus either way

You don’t have to use your Bonus Bets all at once (unless you want to), as you can divide up how you use the Bonus Bets any way you like

Cons

You can’t just withdraw the Bonus Bets, but you have to wager them

You only have a week to use all $200 of your Bonus Bets

If you win with Bonus Bets, you only get the winnings and not the wager amounts back

What is the welcome offer at FanDuel Sportsbook VT?

Those signing up at FanDuel Sportsbook Vermont by Jan. 10, 2024 will find $100 in Bonus Bets in their accounts when the site launches on Jan. 11. In addition, FanDuel Sportsbook VT will also feature the same welcome offer it has in other states, inviting new sign-ups to bet at least $5 and get $200 in Bonus Bets. Be aware that sometimes FanDuel add perks to that offer, such as they did at the start of the NBA season when they threw in a free three-month subscription to NBA League Pass.

What can I win with the FanDuel Sportsbook welcome offer?

With the FanDuel offer, whatever you win with your Bonus Bets is yours to keep. If you can make some successful bets, that should mean a nice profit given the fact that with the prelive offer you received $100 Bonus Bets for free, and with the welcome offer you only have to make a $5 bet up front in order to receive the $200 in Bonus Bets.

What makes the FanDuel Sportsbook welcome offer special?

The FanDuel Sportsbook offer is great for many reasons. It is simple and easy to claim and use. You don’t have to make a large wager up front to receive the bonus, and it also doesn’t matter if your first bet wins or loses as you get the bonus either way. Finally, $200 in bonus bets is quite generous and if you make some winning bets you’ll be able to have a nice bankroll right away without any significant expense. And with the $100 in Bonus Bets for those signing up by Jan. 10, the offer is even more generous.

DraftKings Vermont promo code

DraftKings is likewise already known to Vermont sports fans thanks to its popular DFS site, and many will surely be gravitating to the DraftKings Sportsbook as well. DraftKings also has a prelive offer already available to Vermont users. Be aware, though, that those who accept the prelive offer will not be eligible for DraftKings' welcome offer later on.

If you use our links and sign up for a DraftKings Sportsbook VT account between now and the moment the site goes live on Jan. 11, you will receive $200 in Bonus Bets, issued as eight $25 Bonus Bets. You'll have to wager these (i.e., you can't withdraw them), and you must do so within 7 days or they'll expire.

If you choose to wait and instead take the welcome offer, you'll find DraftKings Sportsbook actually has a multi-part offer worth up to $1,200. The offer includes a deposit match bonus worth up to $1,000, a $50 Bonus Bet just for depositing at least $5, and another $150 in Bonus Bets for making a first wager of at least $5.

Here are more details on the offer explaining how each part of the DraftKings Sportsbook welcome offer works:

Sign up for a DraftKings Sportsbook account via the links on this page .

. Make a first deposit of at least $5 and get a $50 Bonus Bet .

and get a . When you make your first deposit, DraftKings will give you a 20% deposit match bonus worth up to $1,000 in Bonus Bets . Be aware this bonus comes with a 25x wagering requirement .

worth up to . Be aware this bonus comes with a . Finally, when you place an initial bet of at least $5 , you get $150 more in Bonus Bets delivered as eight $25 Bonus Bets that you’ll have seven days to use.

, you get delivered as eight $25 Bonus Bets that you’ll have seven days to use. If you go for the full deposit match bonus, you can receive as much as $1,200 in Bonus Bets all told. Keep in mind that when you wager with Bonus Bets (aka DK Dollars) and win, you only receive the winnings and not the wager amounts.

DraftKings Sportsbook welcome offer pros and cons

Pros

There are multiple welcome offers and not just a single offer

You don’t have to risk a lot — just $5 — to receive a total of $200 in Bonus Bets

You also don’t have to worry about winning or losing your first wager to get a bonus as with other sites’ offers

Cons

The 20% deposit match bonus worth up to $1,000 might sound good, but with a 25x wagering requirement it is truthfully only useful to high-stakes bettors

You only get a week to use the $150 in Bonus Bets awarded for making your first wager of at least $5

You only receive winnings and not the bet amounts when you use Bonus Bets

What will the welcome offer at DraftKings Sportsbook VT be?

When DraftKings Sportsbook Vermont launches, the site will feature the same multi-part welcome offer it has in other states: a $50 Bonus Bet just for depositing $5, another $150 in Bonus Bets for making a $5 wager, and a 20% deposit match bonus worth up to $1,000 in Bonus Bets.

What can I win with the DraftKings Sportsbook welcome offer?

Depending on how much in Bonus Bets you gather, you can win whatever you earn by placing successful wagers with them.

What makes the DraftKings Sportsbook welcome offer better than others?

DraftKings Sportsbook outdoes other sites with multiple offers rather than just one. Also, the $200 total in Bonus Bets you can receive just for depositing and wagering $5 is the best deal around, and you don’t even have to win or lose your first bet. The deposit match bonus offer is unique as well, although not all new users will likely try to take advantage of it.

BetMGM Vermont promo code

Known as the “King of Sportsbooks,” BetMGM Sportbook is another favorite around the US and will surely be one should it launch in Vermont. BetMGM has applied for an online sports betting license and should be one of the new sites in VT. When that happens, Vermont bettors should be able to take advantage of BetMGM’s nice welcome offer of up to $1,500 paid back in Bonus Bets should they lose their first wager on the site.

BetMGM Sportsbook offers lots of ways to bet on many different sports and leagues with a wide range of standard pregame bets (moneyline, spread, totals) plus lots of props, futures, and live betting opportunities. BetMGM is generous with bonuses and promos, too, with free pools, ongoing refer-a-friend bonuses and more. There’s also the BetMGM Rewards program for added benefits.

Here’s how that welcome offer works at BetMGM Sportsbook:

Start by entering the bonus code SPORTSPICK when you create your BetMGM Sportsbook account.

when you create your BetMGM Sportsbook account. Deposit at least $10 .

. Make a first bet and if you lose get back the equivalent amount in Bonus Bets up to $1,500 within 24 hours of the bet being settled.

within 24 hours of the bet being settled. For losing bets up to $50, you receive the Bonus Bet as a single bet . If you bet more than $50 and lose, you’ll get your refund (up to $1,500) in five Bonus Bets divided equally (20% each).

. If you bet more than $50 and lose, you’ll get your refund (up to $1,500) in divided equally (20% each). You’ll have seven days to use your Bonus Bet(s).

to use your Bonus Bet(s). If you use a Bonus Bet and win your wager, you receive the winnings but not the wager amount back.

BetMGM Sportsbook welcome offer pros and cons

Pros

It enables you to lose a first bet but still have get a second chance at winning

You can receive back up to $1,500 in Bonus Bets, and if it is more than $50 the bets get split up into smaller amounts you can use separately

You receive the Bonus Bet(s) within 24 hours, a quick turnaround

Cons

You have to lose your first wager to receive any welcome bonus

You have to use your Bonus Bet(s) within seven days

Winning with the Bonus Bet(s) earns you the winnings, but not the bet amounts back

What will the BetMGM Sportsbook Vermont welcome offer be?

BetMGM Sportsbook has a “First Bet Offer” that awards you up to $1,500 in Bonus Bets if you lose your first bet after registering.

How much can I win with the BetMGM Sportsbook welcome bonus?

As with similar offers, you can win whatever you get from placing winning wagers with your Bonus Bets. The longer the odds on those bets, the more you can potentially win.

How does the BetMGM Sportsbook welcome offer compare to other sites’ offers?

Getting $1,500 back in Bonus Bet(s) makes the BetMGM Sportsbook offers one of the most generous versions of the “second chance” offers that let you lose a first wager but get a second try at it.

Fanatics Vermont promo code

Fanatics Sportsbook is already scheduled to launch in Vermont in Jan. 2024. We are still awaiting word on what the Fanatics Sportsbook VT welcome offer will be. The site is live in several other states

In the past, Fanatics has featured different welcome offers for new sign-ups. These have included variations on the “bet-and-get” welcome offers described above. Fanatics has featured a bet $5, get $200 in Bonus Bets offer before. They have also structured the same offer differently by inviting new users to make five bets of at least $10 over five days and receive Bonus Bets each time they do, again totaling $200.

Fanatics Sportsbook has also taken advantage of the company’s other major business as an official sports apparel and gear provider that partners with all the major leagues and teams. Drawing on that connection, Fanatics has sometimes made a free jersey, or, rather, money to spend in the Fanatics Store, part of a welcome offer to new users.

We'll stay tuned to see what happens with Fanatics Sportsbook VT.

ESPN Bet Vermont promo code

ESPN Bet Sportsbook has also applied to operate an online sportsbook in Vermont, and so it could soon be among the new online wagering options for Vermont bettors as well.

ESPN Bet brings a very familiar brand to sports fans, but a relatively new one when it comes to online sports betting. After acquiring the old Barstool Sportsbook earlier in the year, ESPN Bet Sportsbook launched the rebranded site in 17 different states in Nov. 2023. The site has already begun taking advantage of various tie-ins with the renowned sports programming network which has helped in the effort to establish the site in the overall marketplace.

In other states, the ESPN Bet welcome offer has included a 100% deposit match bonus worth up to $1,000 (with a 20x wagering requirement). ESPN Bet has also run a welcome promo that invites new sign-ups to place a wager of any amount and receive $200 in Bonus Bets split into four $50 Bonus Bets.

Again, we'll keep an eye out for any news regarding ESPN Bet Sportsbook VT.

Other potential Vermont sportsbooks

Vermont's new sports betting law allows for as many as six online sportsbooks, and while we know of a few of these we're still waiting to find out which ones go live in the state. Here are a couple of other online sports betting sites that are thriving in other states, one or both of which could potentially come to Vermont eventually.

Caesars Vermont promo code

Caesars Sportsbook has become one of the most popular online sportsbooks in the US in several states, and it should prove a favorite in Vermont as well. We expect Caesars to offer the same offer in VT is has elsewhere, with new sign-ups eligible to receive up to a $1,000 Bonus Bet if their first bet loses.

Caesars covers wide range of markets and different bet types while also featuring a terrific live betting platform. The site offers frequent odds boosts and other bonuses, and new sign-ups also get to join the famed Caesars Rewards program that can earn them more site bonuses among other benefits.

Here are details explaining how the Caesars Sportsbook welcome offer works:

When registering your new Caesars Sportsbook account, enter the bonus code NEWS1000 .

. Place a first bet within 30 days and if it loses, receive back the equivalent amount in the form of a Bonus Bet worth up to $1,000 .

. After that first bet has been settled, you’ll see the Bonus Bet in your account within two days .

. Use your Bonus Bet within 14 days or else it will expire.

or else it will expire. If you win with your Bonus Bet, you only receive the winnings and not the bet amount back.

BetRivers Vermont promo code

BetRivers Sportsbook is another site that has launched in many states and could be among those coming to Vermont. BetRivers has a lot to offer and many have found it a great choice elsewhere. Like the sites described above, BetRivers also has a “second chance” welcome offer that gives new sign-ups a free bet refund worth up to $500 should they lose their first wager.

The BetRivers sports betting site has all the most popular sports and leagues covered plus a lot of other international markets, too. You’ll find plenty of props and futures as well as a robust live betting platform. There are ongoing promos like matched bonus bets, parlay insurance, “bet & get” bonuses and more, and BetRivers also has a well-liked loyalty program, iRush Rewards.

Here is a look at how to get the BetRivers Sportsbook welcome offer and what you get with it:

Sign up at BetRivers Sportsbook using the bonus code SPORTSRIV .

. Deposit at least $10 into your account.

into your account. Make a first bet, and if you lose get the bet amount back as a Bonus Bet worth up to $500 . (Note that this amount varies from state to state and could be different in Vermont.)

. (Note that this amount varies from state to state and could be different in Vermont.) You’ll see the Bonus Bet in your account within 24 hours , and then you’ll have 30 days to use it .

, and then you’ll have . The Bonus Bet has to be used on wagers with odds of -200 or longer, and if you win with it you’ll receive the winnings but not the bet amount back.

Vermont sportsbook bonuses pros and cons

Vermont Sportsbook Bonus Pros Vermont Sportsbook Bonus Cons Thousands of dollars in value will be up for grabs. Refunds are site credit or bonus bets, not cash. Bonuses can be claimed easily via links or promo codes. Playthrough requirements are attached to site credit and bonus bets. Bonuses can be used to bet on almost any sport. You won't earn back the stake on winning bonus bets or bets with site credit.

Types of Vermont sportsbook promo and bonus offers

The welcome bonuses and ongoing promotions coming soon from new online betting sites in Vermont will fall into the following categories.

Deposit match bonuses

Get up to 100% of your first deposit matched in bonus funds. Sportsbooks will limit the bonus size you can claim and attach wagering requirements.

Referral bonuses

You share a personal referral code with friends and family, and if they use it to sign up, deposit, and bet, you both get a bonus. Sportsbooks will attach wagering requirements to the bonus.

First-bet offers

You get a refund if you lose your first bet. Sportsbooks will limit the size of the refund you can claim. Most refunds are bonus bets or site credit, not cash. That means wagering requirements are attached, and payouts don't include the stake.

Odds boosts

You’ll receive better than the usual odds on specific bets. Daily odds boosts are available, but provide no value if the boosted bet isn't a winner.

Bet insurance

Get a refund if you lose a specific bet or your parlay comes up one leg short. Sportsbooks will limit the size of the refund you can claim, and most refunds are bonus bets or site credit, not cash. That means wagering requirements are attached, and payouts don't include the stake.

Bet & get bonuses

Here, you’ll get a bonus when you place a specific bet. Most bet & get bonuses are bonus bets or site credit. That means wagering requirements are attached, and payouts don't include the stake.

App-only offers

Place a specific bet with one of the best sports betting apps to receive a bonus. This won’t be available on the sportsbook website.

Special event offers

Get a bonus when you place a particular bet on special event odds like World Series odds, Super Bowl betting lines, or March Madness. Special event bonuses are often bonus bets or site credit. That means wagering requirements are attached, and payouts don't include the stake.

Loyalty offers and programs

Earn points with every bet, and the points are redeemable for rewards like cash and bonus bets.

Important Vermont sportsbook bonus and promo conditions

Terms and conditions will be attached to every bonus and promo offer from Vermont online sports betting sites. Be ready to see these stipulations.

Banking options

Your ability to withdraw the winnings from a bonus could be limited to specific banking methods.

Wagering requirements

You might be forced to bet a bonus amount a minimum number of times before you can withdraw winnings.

Betting limitations

There may be limits on the odds or bet types available for wagering bonus funds.

Time limits

These would force you to use a bonus before an expiration date or meet all wagering requirements within a specific timeframe.

Maximum withdrawals

Some offers could limit your ability to withdraw winnings of a particular amount, forcing you to make multiple withdrawal requests on big wins.

Vermont sport-specific betting promos

Vermont has no teams in the four major US pro sports leagues. However, state residents have been known to support Boston-based teams, like the Red Sox (MLB), the Celtics (NBA), the Bruins (NHL), and the Patriots (NFL).

Because of those teams’ proximity to the state, you can expect Vermont online sportsbooks to run related promos (eg. NFL betting promos) to attract fans. College sports are big, too, which means several betting promos should also surround local college teams.

How do I claim a Vermont sportsbook bonus?

Many times, all you’ll need to do is sign up for a new account through the links on this page to claim a bonus from a Vermont online sportsbook. Sometimes, you may need to enter the promo or bonus code, but those will all be listed on this page as well.

You may need to place a qualifying bet or meet specific wagering requirements to get your hands on the bonus. All of this will be outlined in the terms and conditions attached to any Vermont online sportsbook bonus offer.

Vermont sportsbook promo codes FAQ

Can I get more than one bonus from a Vermont online sportsbook?

No, you’ll almost certainly be limited to one bonus from each Vermont online sportsbook, and sometimes the limit will be one per household. However, you can claim that one bonus from every Vermont online sportsbook. Sign up at as many sportsbooks as you like.

What sports can these bonuses be used on?

Pretty much any sport should qualify. If betting on the sport is available in Vermont, you can use your bonus on it.

Why should I use the promo codes here on The Sporting News?

The promo codes on this page get you the best bonuses available. When you plug in the code during registration, the sportsbook knows we sent you and gives you the bonus we negotiated for you.

Are these promo codes for regular customers, too?

The promo codes on this page are for new customers only. Once you’ve got an account with a sportsbook, you can take advantage of other bonus offers and ongoing promos.

Related Pages: