In a game with names like Caleb Williams, Sam Hartman, Zachariah Branch and Audric Estime, it felt like there might be no more room for anyone else to play the role of hero.

Enter Xavier Watts. The Notre Dame safety was a wrecking ball against Williams and the USC offense, picking off Williams twice, forcing a fumble and taking another fumble in for a score. Williams finished the contest with arguably the worst game of his career as No. 21 Notre Dame rode the crucial turnovers and a relentless pass-rush to an overwhelming 48-20 win at home against No. 10 USC.

"I think the entire team was hungry," Notre Dame coach Marcus Freeman said after the game. "We had a sour taste in our mouth. But the reality is that I've told those guys just compete against [Williams]. He's gonna make plays, he's a great football player, but be relentless in terms of your effort, your attitude, how you attack that guy and to come up big with five turnovers is really impressive."

MORE: Watch college football live with Fubo (free trial)

Right from the start, it was cleat Notre Dame was going to make things hard on the reigning Heisman Trophy winner. Just four plays into the game, Williams over-threw Lake McRee and Watts picked it off, returning it 38 yards to USC's 12 and setting Notre Dame up for a quick three-play scoring drive.

Midway through the third quarter, with Notre Dame leading 10-3, Williams again threw a pick to Watts, this time Watts nearly returned it to the end zone before he was stopped at the USC 2. Audric Estime finished the job, scoring the first of two touchdowns to give USC the 17-3 lead. Williams threw another interception on the following drive, the first time he had ever thrown three picks in a single game in his career, and Notre Dame again cashed in the turnover for seven more points.

Late in the fourth quarter, with USC desperately trying to stay in the game, Watts recovered a fumble after a reception by Mario Williams and raced it into the end zone. Following that turnover, with his team trailing 48-20, Lincoln Riley pulled the starters. The backup running back fumbled the ball on USC's final drive, forced by — guess who — Watts, and Notre Dame ran down the clock from there.

"Just thank you to all my teammates," Watts said after the game. "None of that would have happened without them. All the pressure they brought, the good coverage down the field."

In a season in which so much has been made of USC's defensive woes holding back the offense, it was the other way around on Saturday. USC's defense held Notre Dame to just 251 total yards of offense, 51 fewer than the offensive yards by the Trojans. Notre Dame was only three-for-10 on third down compared to six-of-13 by USC. But a 5-0 turnover margin will be difficult for any team to overcome, and it frequently helped Notre Dame have only a short field to work with. The Fighting Irish, on average, started drives at their own 47, while the Trojans began drives on average at their own 28.

Watts made the headline-grabbing plays, but a massive part of the Fighting Irish's defensive success came in the trenches. The defensive line by Notre Dame tallied six sacks of Williams and three more hits as it frequently pressed the Trojan quarterback. Williams finished the game just 23-for-37 with 199 passing yards with one passing touchdown and three picks.

The Sporting News tracked updates and highlights from Saturday's Week 7 game between USC and Notre Dame.

USC vs. Notre Dame score

Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Final USC 3 3 7 7 20 Notre Dame 7 17 7 17 48

USC vs. Notre Dame results, highlights from Week 7 game

(All times Eastern)

Fourth quarter

10:51 p.m.: And that will do it. No. 21 Notre Dame demolishes No. 10 USC in a 48-20 win.

10:49 p.m.: Estime picks up a first down on back-to-back runs, and it's all over but the kneeling with two minutes left.

10:47 p.m.: With the Trojans down by 28 with 3:27 left, Williams is done for the day with Miller Moss coming into the game. The Trojans start their drive with a 10-yard run by Quinten Joyner. Joyner fumbles the ball on the next play, and it is recovered by Notre Dame's Javontae Jean-Baptiste at the USC 36.

10:46 p.m.: USC will start the drive at its own 25.

10:44 p.m. Notre Dame scoring play: It continues to get worse for Notre Dame. Mario Williams loses a fumble after a three-yard reception, and Watts, who had already intercepted two passes, scoops up the ball and takes it into the end zone. Notre Dame 48, USC 20

10:43 p.m.: The Notre Dame special teams again halt Branch early on his return, stopping him at the USC 17.

10:39 p.m. Notre Dame scoring play: Shrader kicks the 23-yard field goal to push the lead to 21, a full three touchdowns, with 3:40 left. Notre Dame 41, USC 20

10:38 p.m.: Estime is stopped a yard shy of the first-down marker to bring up a fourth-and-1 from the USC 5, and the Trojans use another timeout.

10:37 p.m.: Estime getting the ball to start the drive again as Notre Dame looks to wind this one away. He rushes for gains of seven yards and then another as USC uses its final timeout with 3:54 left with Notre Dame heading to a third-and-2.

10:33 p.m.: Williams is sacked by Jaylen Sneed for a loss of eight back to the USC 14, and that should all but put this one out of reach. Notre Dame leads by 18 with 4:49 left with the ball deep in USC territory.

10:29 p.m.: False start moves USC back again, the second false start penalty on this drive. Williams finds Jackson for eight yards, but it brings up a fourth-and-9 and the Trojans' offense stays out there. Notre Dame calls a timeout.

10:28 p.m.: Williams evades several defenders before eventually getting sacked for a loss of two. He then fires an incompletion as USC faces another crucial third-down, this one from 12 yards out.

10:26 p.m.: A rush for a loss of one and a false start penalty backed up USC inside its own 5. Williams picks up six yards to set up a third-and-9 at the 11. He then connects with Jackson for a 10-yard pass up the middle to keep the drive going with just under seven minutes to play.

10:23 p.m.: The past two special teams play have been dynamic, but this one is stopped up short as Branch is tackled at the USC 20. Holding on USC backs the Trojans up 10 yards to the 10.

10:21 p.m. Notre Dame scoring play: Well, that didn't take long for the Fighting Irish to respond. Price goes 99 yards, racing past the Trojans through the middle and cutting left before going all the way for the touchdown. Notre Dame 38, USC 20

10:17 p.m. USC scoring play: Williams finally picks up his first passing touchdown of the game, dancing in the pocket before connecting with Rice in the end zone for the score. That makes it an 11-point game with 9:04 left. Notre Dame 31, USC 20

10:15 p.m.: USC leaning on its running game to start the drive, with Jones picking up eight yards combined on his two carries to set up a third-and-2 from the Notre Dame 10. He then rushes up the middle for three to set up a first-and-goal at the 7.

10:13 p.m.: An explosive punt return from Branch, who dances around the field and burns down the left sideline, being stopped only by the punter at the Notre Dame 18 to prevent a touchdown. USC ball with 11:13 left to play, with Notre Dame leading by 18.

10:12 p.m.: Notre Dame picks up just a yard, then Jadarian Price is tackled for no gain. Hartman fires an incomplete pass, and the Fighting Irish will have to punt.

10:10 p.m.: Notre Dame converts the third down with Hartman firing a quick strike to Staes for seven yards up to the Fighting Irish 33.

10:09 p.m.: The start of the fourth quarter looks like a lot like most of the second half so far: back-to-back runs by Estime. He picks up five yards on successive carries to bring up a third-and-5.

Third quarter

10:05 p.m.: Estime ends the third quarter with an impressive run to the left, hitting the hole and ultimately being brought down at the Notre Dame 21 by Zion Branch after a gain of 14.

10:04 p.m.: False start backs USC up before the punt. The punt from Eddie Czaplicki is still a good one as it goes out of bounds at the Notre Dame 7 with eight seconds left in the third quarter.

10:03 p.m.: Notre Dame lets Williams have the 10-yard completion to Jackson on a wide receiver screen, but it will still bring up a Trojan punt.

10:02 p.m.: Notre Dame's defensive line gets to Williams again, this time it's Rylie Mills and Nana Osafo-Mensah bringing Williams down for a loss of eight, and USC is backed up all the way to a third-and-28.

10:01 p.m.: Williams finds Jackson open right over the middle for 10 yards and the first down. The Trojans keep the up-tempo moving, but he is sacked for a loss of eight by Marist Liufau, dropping him back to the USC 44.

9:59 p.m.: A batted pass and a rush for four by Lloyd bring up a third-and-6 for the Trojans from their own 32. Notre Dame uses its first timeout of the half before the Trojans can get that third-down play off.

9:58 p.m.: Williams comes out of the gate firing, hitting Washington on the sideline at the 38 for 13 yards and a first down.

9:58 p.m.: USC will start at its own 25.

9:53 p.m. Notre Dame scoring play: Hartman uncorks a deep ball down the middle of the field and finds the speedy Tyree on the run. Tyree races the rest of the 15 yards into the end zone to score the touchdown and push Notre Dame's lead back out to 18. Notre Dame 31, USC 13

9:52 p.m.: Evans, back in the field after an injury earlier in the quarter, catches a short pass and fights his way through contact to pick up the first down and tally eight yards up to the USC 46.

9:50 p.m.: The Fighting Irish are feeding Estime to start the drive. Estime runs up the middle for seven yards, another to the right for four yards and a first down and then a third run for three yards.

9:49 p.m.: Solid return by Ford will give the Fighting Irish the ball to start at their own 32.

9:45 p.m. USC scoring play: The Trojans have their first touchdown of the evening, as after a rush by Williams for four yards, Lloyd carves through the left side of the defense off a pitch from Williams and breaks loose for a 31-yard touchdown. Notre Dame 24, USC 13

9:44 p.m.: Williams bails USC out of another second-and-long, finding McKree up the middle and on the run, allowing him to move up for 21 to pick up the first down.

9:43 p.m.: Impressive play by Branch just to get back to the line of scrimmage after a reverse. Williams then connects with Singer on a pass down the right sideline, and Singer darts up for a gain of 11. But the Trojans give that yardage nearly all the way back after he was sacked for a loss of 10.

9:42 p.m.: Trading PI calls, as now Notre Dame is penalized for pass interference after Williams tried to find Rice on a deep shot down the middle. Morrison is called for the penalty, his third of the night. USC moves back to its own 43.

9:40 p.m.: USC is called for its second offensive pass interference penalty, with Mario Williams being flagged after a 10-yard catch by Washington. The Trojans will now have a first-and-25.

9:37 p.m.: Another short pass by Hartman, and Calen Bullock makes a great open-field play to tackle Ford after just a yard. Notre Dame punts, and Branch returns it 21 yards up to his team's 43.

9:36 p.m.: Faison manages to get a yard on a short pass, then Love picks up four on the ground to set up a third-and-5 at the Notre Dame 30.

9:32 p.m.: Tyree returns the punt two yards up to the Notre Dame 25, where the Fighting Irish will begin their drive.

9:31 p.m.: USC goes three-and-out quickly, with Williams throwing an incompletion, a pass for a loss of four and another incompletion. Trojans still looking lost on offense.

9:29 p.m.: Branch boots the 50-yard punt, but he's able to hop back on it and ensure USC retains possession. The Trojans will begin the drive from their own 30.

9:28 p.m.: Evans was injured on the play, and though he was able to walk off the field, he had to go to the blue tent. Hartman then throws a short pass to Holden Staes for three and misses him on the third-down try, forcing out the punting unit after a three-and-out.

9:26 p.m.: Hartman opens the drive with a play-action deep shot out to Evans, but the pass was broken up by Roland-Wallace, the second time he's defended a pass out to Evans.

9:25 p.m.: The third quarter is under way, with Notre Dame beginning its drive at the 22 after a 17-yard return from Ford.

Second quarter

9:03 p.m. USC scoring play: The Trojans make the most of the defensive miscue and forced timeout and boot a 48-yard field goal to at least get closer, but this has been a disastrous half for the Trojans. Notre Dame 24, USC 6

9:02 p.m.: This Notre Dame defense continues to get after Williams, with Boubacar Traore sacking the quarterback for a loss of six. USC tries to snap the ball with several Notre Dame defenders in the backfield, but Marcus Freeman gets a timeout in time to prevent the penalty.

9:01 p.m.: Williams fires a strike to a streaking Washington, who then takes it 14 yards for a first down to the Notre Dame 25. Williams is then pressured and has to throw the ball away.

9 p.m.: USC runs the ball for four yards up the middle to bring up a third-and-3, and is now forced to burn its last timeout with 30 seconds left in the half.

8:57 p.m.: Back-to-back big plays by the Trojans, with Williams first hitting Washington for nine, then hitting Mario Williams for a pickup of 20. He then scrambles for three yards as USC uses a timeout with 39 seconds left. USC has a second-and-7 from the Notre Dame 43.

8:56 p.m.: USC will start the drive at the 25 after a touchback.

8:54 p.m. Notre Dame scoring play: Estime powers ahead from a yard out, and the Fighting Irish are dominating the Trojans. Just 1:30 left to play in the first half. Notre Dame 24, USC 3

8:52 p.m.: Back-to-back runs by Estime for five and eight yards sets up Notre Dame at the USC 1 with a first-and-goal.

8:51 p.m.: Now Hartman's putting his legs to work, scrambling for 12 yards to the right side to set up a first-and-10 at the USC 4.

8:50 p.m.: Hartman responds to the pick by throwing a perfect deep pass to Flores, dropping the ball in his hands 24 yards out along the sideline to move up to the USC 26.

8:50 p.m.: This has been a half to forget for Williams. He again throws a pass into double coverage, and is again picked off, this time by Morrison.

There's just something special about 2️⃣0️⃣ in prime time 🤩#GoIrish☘️ pic.twitter.com/uzKZ40XseE — Notre Dame Football (@NDFootball) October 15, 2023

8:48 p.m.: Williams connects with Mario Williams for 10 yards and a first down after missing Washington on a deep ball to start the drive. He then has to throw the ball away after he gets chased in the backfield by Bertrand.

8:43 p.m. Notre Dame scoring play: Estime makes 'em pay, plowing ahead for two yards and the touchdown to immediately cash the interception in to seven points. Notre Dame 17, USC 3

8:42 p.m.: Williams throws his second interception of the game, trying to find Singer but instead hitting Watts again in double coverage for Watts' second pick of the game after the ball was tipped at the line. He had one interception all season, and now has thrown two, both to Watts.

8:40 p.m.: Williams finds Rice on a crossing route, but he drops the pass. The next play, Williams fires a quick pass to Branch in the slot, and he takes the ball up 10 yards for the first down to the 16.

8:36 p.m.: Branch returns the USC punt up to the Trojans' 25 for 12 yards. A holding penalty brings the ball all the way back to the USC 6.

8:35 p.m.: Estime picked up four yards on the ground to start the drive, but Hartman missed a deep shot to Faison on the second-down play. He tries to find Evans up the middle, but Christian Roland-Wallace swats the ball out of Evans' hands to force the three-and-out.

8:31 p.m.: This time, Jones is halted almost as soon as he picked up the handoff from Williams, getting brought down by JD Bertrand for a loss of four and giving the Fighting Irish the ball at their own 33.

8:31 p.m.: Jones is stopped a yard short on the third-down run, and the Trojans again face a fourth-and-1. The offense stays out on the field.

8:30 p.m.: Branch shows off his explosiveness, blazing ahead for 17 yards to set up a much more manageable third-and-3 at the Fighting Irish 31.

8:28 p.m.: Following an incompletion, Williams appeared to score a 38-yard rushing touchdown to tie the game at 10. However, left guard Emmanuel Pregnon is called for offensive holding, bringing the play all the way back and making it a second-and-20 for the Trojans.

8:27 p.m.: Williams rewards the decision to go for it, as he keeps the ball on an option and picks up eight yards up to the Notre Dame 38.

8:25 p.m.: This time, Lloyd's going backwards as DJ Brown makes an impressive solo tackle to bring him down three yards behind the line of scrimmage. USC punts the ball away, but Notre Dame is called for running into the kicker, which sets up a fourth-and-1. The Trojans will go for it.

8:24 p.m.: Williams tries to connect with Rice on a deep shot after off-setting penalties reset the downs, but the two can't connect. Lloyd picks up seven yards bouncing out to the right and beating two defenders to move into Notre Dame territory.

8:22 p.m.: Williams connects with Mario Williams right at the line of scrimmage to convert the third-and-4 at the USC 45.

8:21 p.m.: Jet sweep by Washington picks up 10 to the USC 35, following by a rush of six by Jones right up the middle. Trojans now have 47 yards on the ground as they look to wake their offense up in the first half.

8:20 p.m.: USC will start its drive from its own 25.

8:16 p.m. Notre Dame scoring play: On a third-and-7, Hartman throws a short pass out to Mitchell Evans, who is stopped right away only for a gain of five. Notre Dame is forced to settle for the 36-yard field goal, which Spencer Shrader successfully boots. Notre Dame 10, USC 3

8:14 p.m.: Make it back-to-back plays as Faison is handed the ball on a reverse, fooling the USC defense, and freeing up space down the right sideline to move up 16 yards to the UCS 26.

Big gain for @NDFootball with the reverse!



📺: NBC & Peacock pic.twitter.com/WJ2scejhXs — NBC Sports (@NBCSports) October 15, 2023

8:13 p.m.: The Fighting Irish kick off the second quarter with a big play, with Chris Tyree catching a short pass and taking it up the field 16 yards behind a few blockers to pick up the first down and move up to the Notre Dame 42.

First quarter

8:09 p.m.: Jeremiyah Love loses a yard, but Hartman helps pick it back up and more with a completion out to Jordan Faison to pick up seven. The second quarter will begin with Notre Dame on a third-and-4.

8:07 p.m.: Notre Dame will begin its drive at its own 36 after Devyn Ford returned the kickoff 28 yards.

8:04 p.m. USC scoring play: Three short plays by the Trojans, and the offense stalls at the Notre Dame 8, bringing up a fourth-and-5. Denis Lynch drills the 25-yard field goal to put USC on the board. Notre Dame 7, USC 3

8:02 p.m.: Michael Jackson catches a pass from Williams and heads up 12 yards, but Morrison is called for a personal foul that moves USC all the way up to the Notre Dame 13 and gives the Trojans an automatic first-and-10.

8:01 p.m.: Singer makes a 13-yard catch, but he's called for pushing off Morrison and is flagged for offensive pass interference, backing the Trojans up to the Notre Dame 39 and bringing up a first-and-25.

8 p.m.: Jones picks up three on the ground, then Williams dumps the pass off to Zachariah Branch, who races up for a pick up of seven yards for another first down.

7:58 p.m.: Williams fires a strike up the middle to Dorian Singer to the Notre Dame 35 following a pickup of one on the ground by Jones, and the Trojan offense is rolling.

7:56 p.m.: Williams is flushed out of the pocket and scrambles for a gain of 11. Notre Dame is called for a defensive holding penalty on the play as well that adds to it for the Trojans, who have now moved all the way up to the Notre Dame 46.

7:54 p.m.: USC will begin its next drive at its own 33 with 6:38 left in the first quarter.

7:53 p.m.: The Fighting Irish will be forced to punt the ball away after Estime rushed for only a yard and Hartman's next pass was incomplete out to Rico Flores Jr.

7:51 p.m.: Estime fights his way a yard past the first-down marker for a pickup of 11 to kick off Notre Dame's drive. He then catches a pass for four yards to set up a second-and-6.

7:47 p.m.: The Trojans get the connection between Williams and Tahj Washington, but the wide receiver is stopped three yards shy of the first-down marker to bring out the punting unit. Notre Dame fair catches the punt at its own 14.

7:46 p.m.: Following a rush of four by Williams, USC is called for a snap infraction to bring up a second-and-11. Jones then rushes for three yards.

7:45 p.m.: Austin Jones picks up just five on the first-down carry, but on the second-down play, Notre Dame's Benjamin Morris is called for defensive holding on a pass attempt, giving USC the first down up to the 34.

7:44 p.m.: Zachariah Branch returns the kickoff out to the USC 19.

7:39 p.m. Notre Dame scoring play: The Fighting Irish are on the board first. Sam Hartman drops back and fires a pass to a leaping Gi'Bran Payne, who back-pedals into the end zone for the 4-yard touchdown. Notre Dame 7, USC 0

7:39 p.m.: Back-to-back runs by Audric Estime pick up eight yards to set up a third-and-2.

7:37 p.m.: Williams fires a strike to Brendan Rice for a pickup of 11 yards to pick up the first down, but he then over-shoots Lake McRee and is picked off by Xavier Watts. Watts takes the ball all the way back to the USC 12.

7:35 p.m.: First offensive play of the game is a run up the middle by MarShawn Lloyd, but he picks up just a yard. Caleb Williams scrambles on the next play, and gets out of bounds for no gain.

7:35 p.m.: USC will start with the ball at the 25.

7:29 p.m.: Just about time for the start of USC-Notre Dame. The stadium is dark as the fans welcome the Fighting Irish to the field.

7:03 p.m.: Before the start of Saturday's game, be sure to read about Caleb Williams' legendary high school game between DeMatha and Gonzaga in 2018, which helped put him on the map.

How to watch USC vs. Notre Dame

Date: Saturday, Oct. 14

Saturday, Oct. 14 Time: 7:30 p.m. ET

7:30 p.m. ET Location: Notre Dame Stadium, South Bend, Ind.

Notre Dame Stadium, South Bend, Ind. TV channel: NBC

NBC Live stream: Peacock, Fubo

The latest edition of the rivalry between USC and Notre Dame will be carried on NBC. The game will begin at 7:30 p.m. ET from Notre Dame Stadium in South Bend, Ind. on Saturday, Oct. 14.

There will be several options to stream the game. The game can be found on Peacock or on Fubo, which offers a free trial.