One of the most talked about in the pro wrestling fandom is CM Punk’s next move following his exit from AEW. The Second City Saint was released from the Jacksonville-based promotion back in September 2023 due to his backstage altercation with Jack Perry at AEW All In 2023. Following this, there have been multiple speculations about what might be the former WWE star’s next move. While he has been dropping multiple hints sparking rumors, fans are particularly inclined that he might return to his old stomping ground, WWE.

America’s Favorite Video Today

The speculations stem from the fact that the latest Premium Live Event Survivor Series will be held in his hometown, Chicago, Illinois. While the possibility of his return exists, there are a few WWE stars that he might lock horns with following his return at the Survivor Series.

Shinsuke Nakamura

ADVERTISEMENT Article continues below this ad

The recent cryptic promos by the King of Strong Style have left the fans scratching their heads. The promos which started several weeks ago, show Nakamura calling out to someone that he wants to have a duel with. The mystery opponent has not been revealed yet and according to reports, talents at WWE are pretty clueless as well. However, fans were pretty fast to decode who might be his opponent. At the fallout episode of Raw following Fastlane, Nakamura was particularly frustrated due to his loss against Seth Rollins.

As Ricochet was on his way walking down the ramp, Nakamura attacked him with CM Punk’s finisher Go To Sleep. There has been a lot of controversy surrounding this move, but it was popularly used by the former WWE star to secure his wins. It was after this that Nakamura’s cryptic promos started airing. Fans might get to see a confrontation between him and Punk if he returns at the Survivor Series. As Nakamura is known to be quite persistent, a long rivalry between the two might be the center of Punk’s return arc.

Seth Rollins

While this might come as an obvious piece of information considering Rollins has the WWE World Heavyweight Championship title, the reason behind it might be from outside the ring. When CM Punk made his return to WWE Backstage in 2019, many saw this as the precursor to his return to the company, including Rollins, who invited him to step into the ring with the Messiah.

Fast forward to January 2023 in an interview during the promotion of the WWE 2k23, The Visionary made his feelings for CM Punk after his backstage antics in AEW. Rollins referred to him as a “cancer” also stating that he should stay away from him and WWE. The following week when he made those comments, the current WWE World Heavyweight Champion decided to shed some light on his intentions.

Referring to him as ‘Chicago Phil’, he said that he is as selfish as another WWE talent, Logan Paul. He even added that Punk has particularly helped him during his career but the former WWE star has taken a lot from the promotion as well. He believes that he might not be in the right headspace but he has to contribute somehow. Rollins even added that if he is not going to provide for the industry he does not deserve to be a part of it.

These comments by Rollins will be the setting stone for their rivalry. If CM Punk returns to WWE at Survivor Series, fans might get to see a minor confrontation or possibly a verbal confrontation between the two given the very real animosity between the two. It will also be a neat wrinkle in their character arc considering CM Punk brought forth the S.H.I.E.L.D. which is the faction that brought Rollins to prominence.

Cody Rhodes

CM Punk and Cody Rhodes do have a lot of history. Both the stars were a part of All Elite Wrestling. Even though they were in the same promotion, the two never got a chance to spar. But Rhodes and Punk had a bout in WWE a while back during their initial days. The two had brawled on a couple of occasions. One was during a tag team match with his tag-team partner Ted Debiase Jr. The then World Tag Team Champions lost their title to CM Punk and his partner Kofi Kingston. Apart from that, the two had tussled in front of the 2008 Intercontinental Champion, William Regal.

ADVERTISEMENT Article continues below this ad

The altercation ended and The American Nightmare came out as the winner of the fight. It’s been more than a decade since that fight and fans will notice that Rhodes has grown leaps and bounds. In one of his last promos in AEW before departing for WWE, Rhodes says Punk laid the roadmap for a wrestling revolution. “He listed things that for me, were taboo at the time, like going to New Japan, working for Ring of Honor, he talked about teaming with the Young Bucks.”

He then goes on to say it wasn’t Punk who executed the revolution it was him. He says, “He was unable to do those things…In his absence, in the void that CM Punk left behind, somebody did do each and every one of those things, I did them! I held every grain of that revolution in my hands and you cheered!” From these words, it seems clear that Rhodes harbors a degree of bitterness toward Punk’s fan welfare as he feels Punk just spoke of a wrestling revolution whereas he was the one to actually execute it. If Punk were to follow Rhodes to WWE and steal his thunder as he did in AEW, it’s unlikely the American Nightmare would take too kindly to it. With both being masters on the mic, this has the makings of all-time classic rivalry, one fans have been clamoring for while the two were signed to AEW.

ADVERTISEMENT Article continues below this ad

Which of these rivalries would you like to see if CM Punk returns for Survivor Series?

Watch This Story: Every WWE Superstar Who Attacked Vince McMahon