With the latest Amazon-created Prime-themed sale day behind us and Black Friday slowly approaching, the deals world feels a bit like Pippin waiting on the edge of battle. But that doesn't mean there aren't sales you can score while you wait for winter to come. We've rounded up some of the best deals right now on TVs, gaming gear, and other electronics.

Special offer for Gear readers: Get WIRED for just $5 ($25 off). This includes unlimited access to WIRED.com, full Gear coverage, and subscriber-only newsletters. Subscriptions help fund the work we do every day.

If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism. Learn more.

TV and Soundbar Deals

Samsung S95C Photograph: Samsung

The Samsung S95C (8/10, WIRED Recommends) is one of our favorite TVs, thanks to its quantum dot OLED panel, which gives it perfect black levels and a ridiculously bright image. It even comes with an excellent centered pedestal mount that makes it easy to place in your living room.

For gamers, the LG C3 is our top TV pick. Beyond the usual benefits of LG's OLED panels, like perfect black levels, it has features that are appealing for gaming, including a 120-Hz refresh rate for super smooth gameplay and 9.2 millisecond response time to reduce any input lag during fast-paced games.

One of the best upgrades you can make to your TV is adding a soundbar to replace the mediocre speakers built into the TV itself. This soundbar from Polk is one of our favorites. It comes with a subwoofer that boosts all those deep, booming notes Christopher Nolan likes so much, and it has several audio presets that can tune the sound based on what type of media you're watching.

Keyboard Deals

NZXT Function Photograph: NZXT

If you're interested in mechanical keyboards but aren't sure where to start, the NZXT Function (8/10, WIRED Recommends) is a great jumping-off point. It has a stylish design, and you can configure things like switches and keycaps at the time of purchase. It also comes with tools to modify the keyboard later if you prefer.

If you like mechanical keyboards that are loud enough to register on remote seismic detectors, the Roccat Vulcan 121 is our pick for you. The switches on this board are illuminated from below and are semi-clear, giving it a bold look to match its staggeringly loud clicky switches (in a good way).

The Logitech G915 is one of my personal favorite keyboards, in no small part due to Logitech's powerful G Hub software that makes automating tasks for productivity dead simple. It's designed for gamers, but it's also useful if you spend a lot of time with creative tools like DaVinci Resolve, Premiere, Blender, Cinema 4D, and other high-end media-production tools.

Roccat Vulcan II Mini Photograph: Best Buy

This is one of our favorite keyboards, with twice as many LEDs as usual. Specifically, it has two LEDs per switch, giving it cosmetic benefits like smoother color animations and the occasional functional benefit, like the ability to indicate when a mute toggle is enabled.

Click the coupon button to see the discount at checkout. This keyboard is specifically great for fans of the NumPad. It's made of high-quality plastic and has hot-swappable switches, and it comes with satisfying tactile switches. This deal is pretty modest, but this keyboard rarely goes on sale, so it's worth taking a look.

Gaming Mice Deals

SteelSeries Prime Wireless Mouse Photograph: SteelSeries

This mouse is our top pick overall for gaming mice. It's light, comfortable for a wide variety of hand sizes and shapes, and features a couple of extra buttons without becoming cluttered. It is designed with esports professionals in mind, meaning it has nice, clicky buttons, hyper-fast response time, and solid wireless connectivity even around 10 feet away from the receiver.

This gaming mouse has a comfortable chassis; extra thumb buttons; and, perhaps most importantly, a modest price. Even when it's not on sale, it's one of our more affordable picks, and this deal just makes it even more accessible.

Other Tech Deals

Anker Prime Photograph: Anker

Anker is kicking off its Black Friday sale early with discounts and a buy-one-get-another-50-percent-off promotion. Make sure you use the listed code to snag the discounted price for each product. We generally like most Anker gear, but standouts include the Anker Prime power bank and the Anker Nano Power Bank. Anker's tiny 511 30-watt charger is also excellent.

The Google Pixel Buds A-Series (8/10, WIRED Recommends) are our top overall earbuds pick. For nearly everyone–even some iPhone users–these check every box. They get up to five hours of battery life (plus an extra 19 hours via recharging in their carrying case), IPX4 water resistance for workouts, and nearly instant pairing with Android devices. This is a solid deal, but they do dip to $59 during major sale events, so it might be worth waiting for Black Friday.

Samsung Galaxy Buds2 Pro Photograph: Samsung

For Samsung owners, the Galaxy Buds2 Pro (9/10, WIRED Recommends) are one of our top earbud picks. They produce excellent sound quality, with a super comfortable fit and IPX7 water resistance. They don't have the multi-device connectivity that we like on the Pixel Buds A-Series, but if you mainly use your earbuds with a Samsung phone, these are a great fit for you.

A slightly more affordable version of the above, the Galaxy Buds2 (9/10, WIRED Recommends) are another one of our picks for Android users. They're similar in price to the standard AirPods and get five hours of battery life with active noise canceling turned on and an impressive 7.5 hours with it turned off. They come with a charging case and deliver solid bass via their dual-driver array. This deal is only on the olive green color model.