Happy December, fantasy friends! We have somehow reached the final week of the fantasy football regular season, so the running back decisions we make in our PPR leagues this week could very well impact our playoff fate. Our Week 14 fantasy RB PPR rankings will help you optimize your lineup at RB1, RB2, and flex heading into this crucial weekend.

It hasn't been all holly, jolly this season — in fact, it has often been a bumpy sleigh ride. We've suffered a plethora of injuries to stud RBs the past few weeks, but we keep rolling with the punches and always do our best to stay two steps ahead of our opponents. One major positive is that only two teams will be on bye this week, a welcome relief after the six-team byepocalypse that was Week 13. Still, the injury-ravaged teams will have trouble replacing their studs and the deep squads will have difficult start 'em, sit 'em decisions to make.

As we do every week, we're deep-diving the running back position and analyzing all the stats, matchups, and injuries before breaking down our rankings. So, let's get to it and survey the RB landscape for the final week of the fantasy regular season.

Which RBs are on bye in Week 14?

After a whopping six teams were on bye last week, only the Commanders and Cardinals will be off in Week 14. That takes Brian Robinson Jr. and James Conner off the table, but it doesn't hurt us much beyond that.

WEEK 14 PPR RANKINGS:

QBs | WRs | TEs | D/STs | Kickers

It does hurt a bit to have two below-average run defenses off the table, as Washington and Arizona have both ranked among the 10 most generous teams to RBs this season.

WEEK 14 STANDARD RANKINGS:

QBs | RBs | WRs | TEs | D/STs | Kickers

Who are the best fantasy RBs in Week 14?

Christian McCaffrey (vs. Seahawks in Week 14) has given us no reason to stop believing in him as the best overall player in the NFL, so he stays atop this list. Austin Ekeler (vs. Broncos) has started to give us some pause as of late, as he's averaged fewer than 3.0 yards per carry since coming off IR eight games ago, but a juicy home matchup against Denver should be his get-right game. Clear skies ahead, Ek owners — the Broncos have surrendered the most PPR points in the NFL to RBs, and L.A. faces them twice between now and the fantasy title week.

With Jacksonville playing very well over the past month, we're all-in on Travis Etienne Jr. (@ Browns) even in a tough matchup. Trevor Lawrence and his high-flying offense should dominate the time of possession against the Joe Flacco-led Browns, leaving ETN plenty of opportunities to add to his per-game PPR average of 17.4 points (third best in the NFL entering Week 13).

Guess who's back? Back again? Achane's back — tell a friend! Stud rookie De'Von Achane (vs. Titans) went right back to roughing up the opposition in his Week 13 return from a knee injury that sidelined him one week prior. The potential league-winner casually put up 103 yards and two TDs on the Commanders, and we can't help but place him and running mate Raheem Mostert in the top five this week despite a somewhat-tough matchup with Tennessee. Mostert has more PPR points than everyone but CMC, while Achane ranks just two spots behind CMC at third in PPR points per game (20.6).

Another stud duo, Detroit's Jahmyr Gibbs and David Montgomery (@ Bears), also makes our top 10. They ravaged Chicago when they last met a few weeks ago, combining for a total of 193 yards and two TDs, and we have no reason to think the Lions will slow down in Week 13. Dan Campbell's squad just put 142 rushing yards and 33 points on the Saints in the Bayou this past weekend.

Speaking of New Orleans, old PPR reliable Alvin Kamara (vs. Panthers) has been a source of light for an otherwise-dismal Saints offense. With Derek Carr suffering a brutal blow in the Week 13 loss to Detroit, Kamara will likely shoulder the load against Carolina and its atrocious run defense. Entering Week 13, only two teams had allowed more PPR points than the Panthers (28.9 FPPG).

We also love Saquon Barkley (vs. Packers) against the Packers' leaky run defense and Breece Hall (vs. Texans) in what should be a bounce-back game. Entering Week 13, Houston had allowed 112.9 scrimmage yards per game and nine total TDs to RBs on the year.

WEEK 14 FANTASY ADVICE:

Sleepers | Busts | Projections | Start-sit

Who are the best fantasy RB sleepers, waiver pickups Week 14?

Welcome to the top 25, Tyjae Spears (@ Dolphins)! We've loved the way this kid has run all season. He averaged 5.1 yards per carry entering last weekend, and he stepped up in a major way for Tennessee when Derrick Henry sustained a game-ending hit to the head area against Indy. Spears contributed 20 yards on the game-tying drive in the fourth quarter and another 27 yards in OT, but Mike Vrabel's squad ultimately lost. In what should be a high-scoring game against the Super Bowl-hopeful 'Fins, we like Spears to be busy as rookie QB Will Levis's top check-down option -- assuming Henry (head/neck) is out, of course.

Ezekiel Elliott (@ Steelers) is another potential fill-in who should produce at least flex-worthy stats this week. With Rhamondre Stevenson (ankle) on the shelf, Elliott could see 20 touches. Similarly, Kenneth Gainwell (@ Cowboys) and Roschon Johnson (vs. Lions) could see big upticks in touches if D'Andre Swift and D'Onta Foreman can't suit up, but we're not as confident those backs can produce given their matchups.

We still like Jaylen Warren better overall, but you can confidently take Najee Harris (vs. Patriots) out of the doghouse for good. Harris has been running with purpose, and his role in the passing game continues to make him a high-ceiling RB2 in a run-first offense that will be without Kenny Pickett (ankle) this week. New England might be banged up, but it's still a tough D to get chunk yardage against through the air. Look for Harris to see lots of screens and dump-downs in a rough-and-tumble Thursday night game in Pittsburgh.

We love Baltimore's Keaton Mitchell (vs. Rams) and think he has the potential to smash Los Angeles at home this week. The speedster has quietly racked up over 300 yards and two TDs over the Ravens' past four games, and with Lamar Jackson facing Aaron Donald and a still-talented pass-rush, John Harbaugh's squad might turn to the rookie to move the chains between the 20s. All we need is one or two big chunk gains to make him a worthwhile start — he can run friggin' 22 miles per hour!

WEEK 14 DFS:

DK lineup | FD lineup | Best values | Best stacks

Who are the biggest potential fantasy RB busts in Week 14?

While he just barely cracks our top 25 thanks to his passing-down usage, James Cook (@ Chiefs) doesn't thrill us at Arrowhead against the pissed-off defending champs. Kansas City's front-seven has been tough against speedsters and more vulnerable to power backs, and the 5-11, 190-pound Cook 100 percent falls into the former category. Temper your expectations.

We feel the same way about Zach Charbonnet (@ 49ers). It's great that the Week 13 injury he sustained on Thursday night was just a bruise, but it's not great that he now faces a 49ers defense that already stifled him on Thanksgiving. You're probably starting him if Kenneth Walker III remains out with his oblique injury, but consider other options if you have the depth. The floor and ceiling remain low against this uber-confident Niners D.

Tyler Allgeier (vs. Buccaneers) continues to see his role diminish for the NFC South-leading Falcons, with dum-dum coach Arthur Smith finally realizing that Bijan Robinson gives the ATL the best chance at continued success. Tampa Bay has a pretty good run defense, so Allgeier can't be trusted outside of a desperate flex play with his nine average touches over the past two weeks.

What are the biggest RB injuries in Week 14?

Derrick Henry (head/neck), Rhamondre Stevenson (ankle), Kenneth Walker III (oblique), Aaron Jones (knee), D'Onta Foreman (ankle), and D'Andre Swift (undisclosed) are all "questionable," at best, to suit up this week. We know for sure Stevenson will be out, but we'll have to monitor the injury reports throughout the week for the rest.

Jonathan Taylor (thumb) underwent surgery last week and will miss the next few weeks, opening the door for Zack Moss to resume his role as Indy's super-sub lead back.

We'll be updating these RB PPR rankings all week, so check back for the latest player movement.

Fantasy RB PPR Rankings Week 14: Who to start, sit at running back

Rankings based on full-point PPR scoring formats

Rank Player

1 Christian McCaffrey, 49ers vs. Seahawks

2 Austin Ekeler, Chargers vs. Broncos

3 Travis Etienne, Jaguars @ Browns

4 De'Von Achane, Dolphins vs. Titans

5 Raheem Mostert, Dolphins vs. Titans

6 Jahmyr Gibbs, Lions @ Bears

7 Alvin Kamara, Saints vs. Panthers

8 Saquon Barkley, Giants vs. Packers

9 David Montgomery, Lions @ Bears

10 Breece Hall, Jets vs. Texans

11 Bijan Robinson, Falcons vs. Buccaneers

12 Josh Jacobs, Raiders vs. Vikings

13 Rachaad White, Buccaneers @ Falcons

14 Tony Pollard, Cowboys vs. Eagles

15 Kyren Williams, Rams @ Ravens

16 Joe Mixon, Bengals vs. Colts

17 Javonte Williams, Broncos @ Chargers

18 Derrick Henry, Titans @ Dolphins

19 D'Andre Swift, Eagles @ Cowboys

20 Jaylen Warren, Steelers vs. Patriots

21 Alexander Mattison, Vikings @ Raiders

22 Jerome Ford, Browns vs. Jaguars

23 Kenneth Walker III, Seahawks

24 Najee Harris, Steelers vs. Patriots

25 James Cook, Bills @ Chiefs

26 Zack Moss, Colts @ Bengals

27 Keaton Mitchell, Ravens vs. Rams

28 AJ Dillon, Packers @ Giants

29 Ezekiel Elliott, Patriots @ Steelers

30 Aaron Jones, Packers @ Giants

31 Jerick McKinnon, Chiefs @ Bills

32 Tyjae Spears, Titans @ Dolphins

33 Gus Edwards, Ravens vs. Rams

34 Dameon Pierce, Texans @ Jets

35 Roschon Johnson, Bears vs. Lions

36 Clyde Edwards-Helaire, Chiefs @ Bills

37 Kareem Hunt, Browns vs. Jaguars

38 Tyler Allgeier, Falcons vs. Buccaneers

39 Chuba Hubbard, Panthers @ Saints

40 Devin Singletary, Texans @ Jets

41 D'Onta Foreman, Bears vs. Lions

42 Chase Brown, Bengals vs. Colts

43 D'Ernest Johnson, Jaguars @ Browns

44 Jaleel McLaughlin, Broncos @ Chargers

45 Miles Sanders, Panthers @ Saints

46 Zach Charbonnet, Seahawks @ 49ers

47 Dalvin Cook, Jets vs. Texans

48 Joshua Kelley, Chargers vs. Broncos

49 Royce Freeman, Rams @ Ravens

50 Jeff Wilson Jr., Dolphins vs. Titans

51 Ty Chandler, Vikings @ Raiders

52 Latavius Murray, Bills @ Chiefs

53 Cordarrelle Patterson, Falcons vs. Buccaneers

54 Justice Hill, Ravens vs. Rams

55 Rico Dowdle, Cowboys vs. Eagles

56 Kenneth Gainwell, Eagles @ Cowboys

57 Khalil Herbert, Bears vs. Lions

58 Tank Bigsby, Jaguars @ Browns

59 Samaje Perine, Broncos @ Chargers

60 Chase Edmonds, Buccaneers @ Falcons

61 Boston Scott, Eagles @ Cowboys

62 Matt Breida, Giants vs. Packers

63 Jamaal Williams, Saints vs. Panthers