“Tackled above waist and below shoulders. No sling or double motion. Sheppard lands on her back. ′ ‘Girls’ play hard too,” Harford said on X, the social media site formerly known as Twitter. This echoed Collingwood defender and Fox Footy commentator Ruby Schleicher’s thoughts at the time, who called it a “monster tackle” but believed it was “fair”. “I don’t see any dirtiness in that,” Schleicher said on Fox Footy. “It was pretty heavy on her head, wasn’t it? I look at that – I still see a fair tackle. There’s no doubt the match review [officer] will look at it because they have to I guess. The duty of care for the player.”

The decision a week comes after Adelaide premiership defender Najwa Allen was handed a three-ban suspension, the longest ban in AFLW history, for a high bump on Western Bulldog Kirsten McLeod. The Crows elected not to challenge the decision. ‘Horror week’: Bombers stunned by struggling, controversy-hit Eagles West Coast withstood a late-term surge from Essendon to narrowly claim their second win of the AFLW season.

Fresh off a controversy caused by comments their coach Michael Prior made following last week’s 70-point loss to Melbourne, the Eagles prevailed 3.5 (23) to 2.7 (19) in a slugfest at the appropriately named Windy Hill on Sunday. West Coast’s Kate Bartlett (left) and Isabella Lewis celebrate Sunday’s surprise win over Essendon flanked by their teammates. Credit: Getty Prior had blasted the decision to pit strugglers West Coast against defending premiers Melbourne, saying: “How we play that team is beyond me. That is what you get when you get fixturing like that.” He later backtracked on the criticism, but his comments did put added pressure and focus on his team this week. Michael Prior guided West Coast to a gutsy win. Credit: Getty

Aisling McCarthy and Amy Franklin drew first blood for West Coast within the opening five minutes, while the hosts were kept goalless. The Bombers only added three behinds in the second term and the Eagles failed to score as the blustery conditions took their toll on the game. West Coast’s Kellie Gibson broke the goal drought with the only major of the third quarter, before the home side came to life with the wind at their backs in the final term, with skipper Bonnie Toogood and Amber Clarke reducing the margin to four points. Toogood continued to pepper the scoreboard, but the Eagles held on to secure a rare victory. “We’ve had a horror week back at home, and it’s been really bloody tough on all of us, and Mick as well. I’m just really proud of the girls,” West Coast captain Emma Swanson said post-game on the broadcast. “I can name the whole team. Everyone had their second in the last couple minutes.

“That was such a team effort, everyone had a moment there when they had to put their head over the footy and lay a tackle and not let it slip.” Swanson (25 disposals, eight clearances) stood out for the Eagles, while Bombers workhorse Maddy Prespakis (30 disposals, nine clearances) was typically prominent in the midfield alongside Georgia Nanscawen (21, six). With two rounds left, West Coast have a chance to build their winning streak when they meet the bottom of the table Western Bulldogs next round. Slipping one place to sixth, Essendon have must-win matches against Carlton and Gold Coast on the road to the finals. The Bombers will be without Steph Cain, who was sidelined with a concussion after an elbow to the head from Swanson. AAP Pies hold on against comeback Cats

Sunday’s clash between Collingwood and Geelong at Victoria Park was less about who was the overall better side than it was decided by who could adapt best to the blustery wind and rain. The answer: the Magpies. Collingwood survived a fourth quarter comeback from Geelong to finish with a six-point victory and stay firmly in finals contention, whereas the Cats now face an uphill battle to finish in the eight in two weeks’ time. Jordyn Allen of the Magpies is tackled by Geelong’s Claudia Gunjaca in the round-eight match at Victoria Park. Credit: Getty Geelong scored just one point in the first quarter and had just 1.3 on the board at three-quarter-time, but kicked two goals to none in the final term to close in on Collingwood. Magpies ruck Sabrina Frederick, who starred with 39 hit-outs and used her height to bring the ball to ground at the advantage of her midfielders, said her side had been practising for games like this.

“Even in the chaos, it’s quite comfortable because we train it. We train what scenarios to do in what moments, and even though it’s a bit crazy, it felt so calm. We put players in place and we know what we’re doing,” said Frederick. “But close games are good ones, for everyone. We knew they were going to come out like that [in the last quarter]. When they’re down, they’re just going to give us everything.” Collingwood’s Brianna Davey kicks her team forward against Geelong. Credit: Getty Frederick admitted at times she “couldn’t see” and felt like she could be “blown away”. Geelong coach Daniel Lowther said the strong winds made it hard for his side to clear the ball out of their defensive 50-metre zone and to move the ball with any certainty around the ground.

Loading “At one point the rain hit our box, it was flowing,” Lowther said. “Both teams had to fight in the conditions, but it didn’t help the game. “Our marking contest wasn’t too flash, our ground ball representation was a bit hit and miss, so our defence were under a bit more pressure than they should have been, but they fought back really well,” Lowther said. Collingwood next play a Sydney line-up including former Magpies star Chloe Molloy, while Geelong will take on Richmond at Ikon Park.

Dockers spoil Saints’ finals hopes Fremantle recorded a comfortable 24-point win yesterday to bring an abrupt end to St Kilda’s four-game streak and dash their AFLW finals hopes. J’Noemi Anderson is tackled by a group of Dockers. Credit: AFL Photos The Dockers dominated the Saints from the start to win 6.9 (45) to 3.3 (21) at Fremantle Oval. Having been on the verge of making their first finals appearance, St Kilda (4-4) could now miss the top eight even if they beat the fourth-placed Brisbane Lions and the ninth-placed Carlton.

Dana East was everywhere for Fremantle, leading the game in disposals (19) and contested possessions (11), alongside Orlagh Lally (19 disposals, five clearances). Jamiee Lambert was the shining light for the otherwise subdued Saints, collecting a game-high seven clearances and 13 contested possessions. Docker Hayley Miller hunts a loose ball against St Kilda. Credit: Getty Fremantle flew out of the gates from the first siren, producing their highest-scoring quarter of the season with 26 points in the opening term. Conversely, the score was the most the Saints have conceded in any quarter this season.

Aine Tighe set the tone for the Dockers with a brilliant goal less than 30 seconds into the first quarter, followed by two majors from Gabby O’Sullivan and another by Angelique Stannett. Ella Friend slotted a much-needed goal for the visitors to make it 4.2 (26) to 1.3 (9) at quarter-time. With less than a minute till the long break, captain Hayley Miller (two goals) kicked the only major of the second quarter to give Fremantle a comfortable 26-point lead at half-time. Despite two goals from Tyanna Smith and J’Noemi Anderson in the second half, the Saints struggled to eat into the deficit. Fremantle (4-4) face reigning premiers Melbourne next, before finishing the season against 11th-placed Sydney.

Dogs forward reveals battle with kidney disease Western Bulldogs forward Richelle Cranston has revealed she’s been living, and playing, with stage five chronic kidney disease. “I still manage to do the things I love,” the inaugural AFLW player posted to Instagram. “It’s just really hard sometimes.” Richelle Cranston of the Bulldogs: “It’s just really hard sometimes.” Credit: Getty Images The 34-year-old posted the caption along with a video detailing her life with the disease including weekly blood tests and daily blood pressure checks, tracking water and food intake, taking medications including resonium (to lower potassium levels), all while training in the high-performance environment.

The Dogs are Cranston’s third club after starting at Melbourne and having a stint with Geelong before heading to the Bulldogs last year. Cranston lined up for the Bulldogs in her side’s 57-point loss to Sydney on Saturday at Whitten Oval, 14.12 (96) to 6.3 (39). It was the Western Bulldogs’ eighth loss in a row, and their biggest-ever defeat, and they have just two rounds left to clinch a win this season. They next play 17th-placed West Coast and then top-four side North Melbourne. For the Swans, however, the victory has them challenging for a top-eight spot alongside the likes of Gold Coast, Geelong, Collingwood, St Kilda and Carlton.

The Swans, who went winless in their debut season last year, were propelled to victory by a Chloe Molloy masterclass. After a five-goal second term, which included a four-minute burst of three majors, Sydney had already brought up their largest score in an AFLW game by halftime. Swan Chloe Molloy celebrates a goal. Credit: AFL Photos / Getty Images The Bulldogs held their own in the last quarter, but the damage had already been done. The total was also the biggest the Dogs have conceded in their history, topping the 83 Melbourne kicked against them in round three. Molloy, the Swans’ star off-season recruit, turned on one of the best performances of her career to demolish their injury-hit hosts.

The former Collingwood ace was a class above as she kicked 3.4 from her 28 possessions and played a crucial role in setting up numerous other Sydney goals. Loading “She [Molloy] was itching to get in there [in the midfield],” Swans coach Scott Gowans said. “We kept her forward deliberately. It was important Chloe played a good block of time forward so we could have a look at it.” The Blues lost to Greater Western Sydney by two points on Saturday afternoon, denying them the chance to leapfrog into the top eight, 8.1 (49) to 7.5 (47).

Narrm reclaim top spot Reigning premiers Narrm have reclaimed top spot on the ladder and their position as flag favourites after defeating third-placed North Melbourne by 23 points at Ikon Park on Saturday night. The Kangaroos’ Alice O’Loughlin and Melbourne’s Maeve Chaplin battle for the ball. Credit: AFL Photos It was a hard-fought, low-scoring battle between the two powerhouse sides that play a similar game style. Each set up well, are fast and like a good dose of contested marking. But Narrm controlled more of the game by tightening around the contest and being cleaner going forward. They also defended extremely well by suffocating the opportunities North created and prevailed 5.7 (37) to 2.2 (14). While the Demons scored just one goal a quarter in the second half – Tyla Hanks in the third and Eden Zanker in the fourth – the Kangaroos were goalless for three terms, having led by five points at the first change. Their opening goals were thanks to Niamh Martin and Tess Craven.

Then a crafty goal from Demons skipper Kate Hore to open the second term put her side up, and Melbourne never gave up the lead. Hanks was pivotal for the Demons and starred with 26 disposals, seven tackles and one goal, while her partner in the midfield Olivia Purcell had 28 touches, five clearances and five tackles. For the Roos, Ash Riddell led the disposal count with 31, while skipper Emma Kearney was crucial in defence. Melbourne’s Alyssa Bannan is tackled by Lulu Pullar of the Kangaroos. Credit: Getty Hanks said with the state of competition, they just had to take it week by week, but it was good to get the win. “We knew we were up against the best tonight,” said Hanks. “It’s a nice feeling tonight.”

Lions roar in big battle Meanwhile, on Saturday afternoon, the Brisbane Lions put an end to Adelaide’s unbeaten run with a three-point victory at Brighton Homes Arena in a top-four thriller, 5.12 (42) to 6.3 (39), in a spectacle worthy of being a final. The Lions’ Orla O’Dwyer speeds away against the Crows. Credit: Getty Images Adelaide started fast but the game evened up as the Lions had the better of the second quarter with three goals to one. The Crows then took back control in the third with three goals to none, which set the stage for a tense final term. The fourth quarter was a heated arm wrestle, and scores were tied with four minutes left on the clock. The Lions’ Bella Dawes kicked the only goal of the last term, but it was a series of behinds in the final minutes that won the game for them, including one from Lily Postlethwaite that broke the stalemate.

Adelaide’s Niamh Kelly navigates her way through traffic against brisbane. Credit: Getty The two sides have had intense battles in the competition’s history, including two grand finals, and this was no different. If the Lions had lost, they were at risk of falling out of the top four with second-season side Essendon chasing their spot. Last season’s best and fairest Ally Anderson said her side loved playing at its training ground in Springfield, which it has made a fortress, and work well in hot conditions . “It was really hot. It was a grind… But yeah, it was a good finish,” Anderson told Fox Footy post-game. “Every week that we play here, every time that we play here, we get better and better. So, it was just a matter of time before we finally got the first win and then it hopefully [will] open the floodgates a bit.”

The Lions next play St Kilda before taking on the reigning premiers Melbourne in the final round. After this weekend, they have staked their claim as being premiership contenders again. Adelaide will play top-four side North Melbourne next weekend before 18th-placed Western Bulldogs. Comeback kings Richmond take the points in Cairns A late goal by Emelia Yassir has helped Richmond to their first win in four games, putting their AFLW finals campaign back on track with an 11-point victory over Hawthorn. Tight tussle: Richmond’s Emelia Yassir is tackled. Credit: Getty Images Separated by one point at half-time and down by nine points entering the last quarter, the Tigers pulled off a 6.5 (41) to 4.6 (30) victory to keep their finals hopes alive at Cazaly’s Stadium in Cairns on Friday night.

Hawthorn were limited to just one point in the decisive final quarter. Midfield duo Monique Conti (35 disposals, seven clearances) and Grace Egan (28, 5) were typically influential for Richmond, while Hawthorn were led by Emily Bates (18, four) and Jasmine Fleming (18, one). “Richmond were just absolute beasts, especially their midfielders. They really worked hard all night,” Hawthorn coach Bec Goddard said after the game. “Our work rate really dropped off and we just watched them play some really good footy. “If you’re a Hawks fan, you would’ve seen some really exciting moments of footy tonight.

“Keep getting excited. We are coming, we’re growing, we’re getting better.” Hawthorn’s Irish ace Aine McDonagh kicked the opening goal before Tigers skipper Katie Brennan slotted two unanswered majors to celebrate her 50th game in style. Fellow 50-gamer Greta Bodey put boot to ball to snatch her own goal before quarter-time. A skirmish erupted in the second term after Brennan took exception to a tackle by Mattea Breed on Laura McClelland. McClelland was gifted a 50-metre penalty following a bump against Sarah Hosking by Sophie Locke and converted from inside the goal square while players were occupied by the tussle.

Bridie Hipwell kicked the only goal of the third quarter to give Hawthorn a game-high nine-point lead. Loading Richmond rebounded in the last term, with Courtney Jones ending Hawthorn’s three-goal run with her first touch of the night, cutting the margin to three points. Dogged by inaccuracy in front of goal, Yassir reduced the deficit to a single point before finally breaking through on her third attempt. That put the Tigers ahead by six points with 11 minutes left, before Caitlin Greiser sealed the win with a massive goal from 45 metres.