Inter Miami were in simply too big of a hole in the MLS playoff race, one which even Lionel Messi couldn’t drag them out of.

With two matches remaining in the season, Inter Miami have been officially eliminated from the MLS playoff race, with Supporters’ Shield winners FC Cincinnati dealing the deathblow with a 1-0 victory at DRV PNK Stadium.

The match had every hallmark of what made Inter Miami a flawed side when Lionel Messi arrived. Inter Miami utterly dominated the first half, but could not find the breakthrough, instead hitting the woodwork three separate times in the opening half-hour and four overall in the match. On the other end, Drake Callender was nothing short of sensational in goal, but even his heroics were just not enough to stymie the electric counter-attack that FC Cincinnati possess.

Messi, who had missed the last four games due to injury, returned to play 35 minutes off the bench, but by the time he stepped on the pitch, Inter Miami’s early dominance in the match had come and gone. Messi played a part, but he was unable to fully change the tide of the game.

Eventually, Alvaro Barreal’s 78th-minute goal ended any hope that Inter Miami had to complete a stunning playoff charge, and the defeat coupled with CF Montreal’s big 4-1 victory over Portland means Inter Miami are officially out of the postseason running.

The Sporting News followed the Inter Miami vs. FC Cincinnati match live, providing score updates, commentary and highlights as they happened.

MORE: Inter Miami playoff scenarios before potential do-or-die match against FC Cincinnati

Inter Miami vs FC Cincinnati final score

Score Goal scorers Inter Miami 0 – FC Cincinnati 1 Barreal (78')

Kickoff: 7:39 p.m. ET / 4:39 p.m. PT

Location: DRV PNK Stadium (Ft. Lauderdale, FL)

Referee: Rubiel Vazquez

Starting lineups:

Inter Miami (5-3-2, right to left): 1. Callender (GK) — 2. Yedlin (Taylor, 76'), 6. Aviles (Messi, 55'), 27. Kryvtsov, 31. Miller, 32. Allen — 41. Ruiz (Mota, 55'), 5. Busquets, 30. Cremaschi — 11. Farias, 17. Martinez (Stefanelli, 76').

FC Cincinnati (5-4-1, right to left): 18. Celentano (GK) — 13. Arias, 4. Hagglund, 21. Miazga, 32. Murphy, 31. Barreal (Halsey, 81') — 5. Nwobodo, 10. Acosta (Badji, 88'), 93. Moreno (Kubo, 65') — 19. Vazquez (Pinto, 88'), 17. Santos (Boupendza, 46').

Inter Miami vs FC Cincinnati live updates, highlights, commentary

FULLTIME: Inter Miami 0-1 FC Cincinnati

Inter Miami are made to rue their early missed chances, as Alvaro Barreal's 78th-minute goal is enough to secure victory for FC Cincinnati.

In the process, Inter Miami are officially OUT of the MLS playoff race, as tonight's defeat coupled with CF Montreal's 4-0 victory over Portland are enough to see them eliminated from contention.

Messi joined Inter Miami with the club bottom of the Eastern Conference, and the gap was just too big to overcome. Messi's injury certainly played a role, but even so, there was just not enough room for error.

It's official: Inter Miami has been mathematically eliminated from MLS playoff contention. pic.twitter.com/u39ZgeXI9M — Tom Bogert (@tombogert) October 8, 2023

Inter Miami vs FC Cincinnati: Second Half

90+3 min: With five minutes of added time on the board, Lionel Messi draws another foul in a very dangerous position, this one much more obvious for the official to make. It's just outside the penalty area from a central position, and Messi stands over it yet again.

His effort on goal is close to finding the top-left corner, but it's just high, clipping off the very top of the crossbar. Officially the fourth time they've hit the woodwork, although this one wasn't quite as dramatic.

89th min: Lionel Messi draws a very contentious foul by Yuya Kubo whose tackle from behind looked clean but draws a whistle regardless. Messi's delivery from a deep central position is floated in and headed out by Matt Miazga for a corner.

The ensuing set-piece is played short and eventually comes to Messi whose deep delivery is seeking the far corner but nervously tapped wide by Roman Celentano. Eventually, a foul by Messi ends the chance and leaves Santiago Arias rolling around on the ground.

88th min: Two more changes for FC Cincinnati as Dominique Badji enters for Luciano Acosta, whose night is done a few minutes early despite trailing by a goal in the Golden Boot race. Malik Pinto also comes on for Brandon Vazquez.

Teammates Acosta and Aaron Boupendza are jawing at each other as the change is made, which might be an alarming sign for FC Cincinnati with the playoffs on the horizon.

84th min: Roman Celentano absorbs a yellow card for time wasting as he stands over a goal kick, much to the delight of the home crowd.

79th min: GOAL! FC CINCINNATI! Drake Callender makes another sensational save, but this time he can't keep Inter Miami level! Callender parries Yuya Kubo's initial effort, but he drives it right into the path of Alvaro Barreal, and he buries the follow-up low into the far corner, and now Inter Miami are in very hot water!

CF Montreal are leading the Portland Timbers 3-0, and therefore Inter Miami must win or they are officially OUT of the playoff race!

Álvaro Barreal off the rebound to give @fccincinnati the lead late against Inter Miami. pic.twitter.com/DpZEQ2O01H — Major League Soccer (@MLS) October 8, 2023

76th min: Two more changes for Inter Miami, as Josef Martinez is curiously withdrawn, replaced by Nick Stefanelli. Robert Taylor also enters for DeAndre Yedlin. They have to win to stay alive in the MLS playoff race.

67th min: Chance, FC Cincinnati! ANOTHER BONKERS SAVE BY DRAKE CALLENDER! HE'S UNBEATABLE TONIGHT! Aaron Boupendza crosses to Brandon Vazquez on the counter, and while the latter is clean through on goal, Callender comes across his goal to make a sensational stop!

The flag goes up, meaning it won't count as a save, but the replay looked incredibly close, so Callender's stop means that VAR does not have a chance to intervene.

65th min: Chance, FC Cincinnati! Inter Miami have hit the post three times, but now it's FC Cincinnati who have struck the woodwork! Brandon Vazquez gets his head to a corner but it comes off the post.

64th min: Inter Miami have to remain wary of the vicious FC Cincinnati counter-attack, and here a lovely Luciano Acosta switch laterally across the top of the penalty area finds Alvaro Barreal in space, but his hit is blocked.

Pat Noonan makes his second change of the match, bringing Yuya Kubo on for Junior Moreno in midfield.

58th min: Lionel Messi's influence has been immediate, and he earns a dangerous free-kick just outside the penalty area, well within his range. Messi appears to be struggling to get good footing on this field, but it's the shirt pull from Miazga which brings him down.

Messi takes it but puts it way over the crossbar. A bit rusty?

57th min: Jean Mota has a shot from distance, and it looks to be a vicious knuckler with some dip, but it goes just wide.

55th min: HERE COMES LIONEL MESSI! He will enter with around 35 minutes to save Inter Miami's season, replacing Tomas Aviles in a very attacking change. Jean Mota also comes on to replace David Ruiz, which is harsh as the young midfielder had been very good.

50th min: Chance, FC Cincinnati! DRAKE CALLENDER MAKES A MASSIVE DOUBLE SAVE! FC Cincinnati are RIGHT on the doorstep, but he comes up huge twice! Aaron Boupendza is the most aggrieved, as his follow-up came from directly in front of the goal but he was stymied by Callender's outstretched right foot!

47th min: Luciano Acosta is fouled on the edge of the attacking third, and it gives FC Cincinnati a free-kick early in the second half. Alvaro Barreal's delivery is floated way high in the air and falls to the far post, but after a nervy moment it's cleared.

Lionel Messi begins to warm up on the touchline, and he may be brought on soon to help Inter Miami save their postseason chances.

Kickoff: The second half is underway, and there are no changes from Inter Miami, which means Lionel Messi remains on the bench for now. With their playoff hopes now squarely on the line, it's a huge call from Gerardo Martino not to bring Messi on now, and it could speak to how fit he truly is.

FC Cincinnati make one change, as Sergio Santos comes off, replaced by Aaron Boupendza up front.

HALFTIME: Inter Miami 0-0 FC Cincinnati

Needing victory in this match to ensure they remain in the MLS playoff picture, Inter Miami completely dominated the confirmed 2023 regular season champs but somehow did not manage to capitalize on their overwhelming pressure. Inter Miami were so unlucky not to cash in on multiple occasions, hitting the woodwork an insane three times, all in the first 30 minutes. Lionel Messi may yet have a job to do tonight, currently available off the bench.

FC Cincinnati had one really good look that they missed as well but otherwise were on their heels the entire 45 minutes. Head coach Pat Noonan tells the broadcast he feels FC Cincinnati had "a lack of courage on the ball" that half, "as bad as its been all year."

Elsewhere, Inter Miami will be nervous about other results from around the league. Most painful is the 2-0 lead for CF Montreal over Portland, which would be a big blow to Inter Miami, meaning they would be eliminated with anything less than a win tonight.

Inter Miami vs FC Cincinnati: First Half

43rd min: There's a goal mouth scrap that sees Roman Celentano scrambling wildly on the doorstep as the ball bounces around awkwardly, but nobody can get on the end of it for Inter Miami.

38th min: While Inter Miami haven't generated any clear-cut chances since the Celentano save on the half-hour mark, they've remained in complete control of this match. The broadcast shows Lionel Messi on the bench, and he looks very antsy, like he wants to enter the game badly.

Some Inter Miami players are called off the touchline to warm up, but Messi isn't one of them.

30th min: Chance, Inter Miami! Facundo Farias forces Roman Celentano into a full-stretch save! A right-footed blast sees the FC Cincinnati goalkeeper make his first big stop. It's an utter siege from Inter Miami through the opening half-hour! Supporters' Shield winners FC Cincinnati have barely survived thus far!

28th min: Obinna Nwobodo is booked for a very late tackle on Facundo Farias in transition. He has to watch himself, as he gives the referee a sarcastic applause, which is a good way to draw the official's ire and get sent off.

26th min: Inter Miami have another good set-piece opportunity as the rain begins to fall hard at Inter Miami. It's really coming down in South Florida, and more could be on the way. Sergio Busquets takes it and blasts it straight into the wall.

Inter Miami fans chant "Mess, Messi" as they have a free kick! pic.twitter.com/VkyvULPUHp — Mundo Albiceleste ⭐🌟⭐🇦🇷 (@MundoAlbicelest) October 8, 2023

24th min: Chance, Inter Miami! THEY'VE HIT THE WOODWORK AGAIN! Benja Cremaschi is fed through on a one-two with Josef Martinez, and with the outside of his right foot, he bends it around Matt Miazga but clatters the near post. The THIRD time Inter Miami have hit the bar in under a half-hour! How unlucky??

22nd min: Chance, Inter Miami! Inter Miami hit the woodwork again! Josef Martinez, who has been electric so far, rips a shot from a tight angle about 15 yards out, and while it beats Roman Celentano, it also clatters the far post and deflects out! So close again for the hosts!

22' | Josef takes a chance and it hits the post🤯#MIAvCIN | 0-0 pic.twitter.com/BbD0dWKnzP — Inter Miami CF (@InterMiamiCF) October 8, 2023

20th min: Josef Martinez's hold-up play creates a chance for a charging Benja Cremaschi, but he puts his driven effort wide.

14th min: Inter Miami have a very dangerous free-kick as Josef Martinez is bundled over from behind by Junior Moreno. The ball is shaded right of the middle just inches outside the penalty area, and it'll be Facundo Farias to take with his fellow Argentine Lionel Messi on the bench. The floated delivery find the head of a teammate, but the shot is weak and easily caught by Roman Celentano.

12th min: Chance, FC Cincinnati! WHAT A SAVE DRAKE CALLENDER! Cincinnati hit on the counter again, as Brandon Vazquez brilliantly settles a ball from deep and finds Sergio Santos. The Cincinnati forward is tackled by Tomas Aviles as he gets his shot off, and that may have put him off just enough to allow Callender to make a diving, full-stretch stop.

End-to-end stuff so far!

9th min: Chance, Inter Miami! Oh no, Tomas Aviles has missed with the goal gaping! On a corner, the initial header drops in Aviles's lap, and he produces a finish of real quality, whipping his leg horizontally at the bouncing ball up near his hip, but he crashes the shot off the crossbar! It had serious pace and should have bulged the net!

Chance, FC Cincinnati! Just seconds after Aviles hit the woodwork, FC Cincinnati counter with real venom, and Sergio Santos puts his chance wide! He's pressured while making a one-on-one run, and the delivery from the right flashes wide of the near post as he slides to meet it.

Both teams will believe they should be in front!

9' | Toto creates a chance early off the crossbar 😳🤯#MIAvCIN | 0-0 pic.twitter.com/aogoOmlhCU — Inter Miami CF (@InterMiamiCF) October 7, 2023

8th min: Inter Miami have held the attacking possession in the opening stage of the match, looking to break down FC Cincinnati early, but Matt Miazga holds firm before he's fouled as Josef Martinez undercuts him in the air.

3rd min: An early free-kick for Inter Miami from about 35 yards away shaded way right, and with Lionel Messi on the bench, Noah Allen stands over the ball. The play is off the training ground, as his delivery goes vertically to try and create a lateral cross opportunity for DeAndre Yedlin, but it's overcooked and completely wasted over the end line. Yikes.

Kickoff: The match is under way at DRV PNK Stadium! One club's status for the postseason is as assured as possible, while the other team's status is far from certain.

Inter Miami vs FC Cincinnati: Pre-match commentary, analysis, stats, and more

5 mins to kickoff: While there is no active protest happening from the Inter Miami supporter section, they are also taking more muted measures to make their feelings known. They have made a collective effort not to be their usual cheerful selves before kickoff, sitting quietly instead of waving flags and making noise.

With such a massive game on hand, this is a very clear sign of frustration with the enormous increase in ticket prices next season. Inter Miami's home field advantage tonight will be significantly hampered.

Not sure how much can be appreciated via the photo, but La Familia — Inter Miami’s supporters’ groups — are mostly sitting here before kickoff.



No drums, chanting, or enthusiasm in what is a protest to the increased price of season tickets for 2024.#InterMiamiCF #Messi𓃵 pic.twitter.com/YaP4ivlX0P — Franco Panizo (@FrancoPanizo) October 7, 2023

15 mins to kickoff: Interestingly, while tonight's match should kick off without any negative attention, it seems the club just managed to get off the ground without a hitch. According to Michelle Kaufman of the Miami Herald, the supporter groups had planned a protest regarding 2024 season ticket prices, but the club offered to meet with them this coming week so they called it off until that can take place.

A reminder, this match officially kicks off at 7:39 p.m. ET so there will be a slight delay from the advertised 7:30 p.m. time.

Inter Miami fan news: the 5 supporters’ groups known as La Familia threatened to stage a protest this game re: ticket price hike for 2024, but team offered to meet w/them next week, so protest off at least until next game. @MiamiHerald @HeraldSports @InterMiamiCF #InterMiamiCF — Michelle Kaufman (@kaufsports) October 7, 2023

30 mins to kickoff: Lionel Messi's availability for Inter Miami is a welcome sight for the club, as they take the field today with their backs against the wall. Inter Miami must win tonight to ensure they remain alive in the playoff race. A draw or a loss, however, would see them vulnerable to outside results.

If Inter Miami do not win, two of the following three possible outcomes would trigger their elimination from playoff contention: CF Montreal beats Portland Timbers; NYCFC wins versus D.C. United; and Chicago Fire picks up points against Charlotte FC.

Those are all conceivable results, and therefore Inter Miami will wish to keep it in their own hands just a little longer. They'll eventually need other results to go their way to climb the table, but for now, their survival is solely up to them.

45 mins to kickoff: Lineups are in, and Lionel Messi is on the bench for Inter Miami.

For FC Cincinnati, Luciano Acosta starts despite the match being meaningless from a tangible standpoint, understandable considering he is chasing the Golden Boot. Ian Murphy comes in for Yerson Mosquera at the back, while Aaron Boupendza is rotated out up front with Brandon Vazquez and Sergio Santos starting together up front.

1 hour to kickoff: With lineups still yet to be released, let's take a look at one player who is, in fact, an MVP candidate for this year.

FC Cincinnati forward Luciano Acosta is one back of Denis Bouanga for the MLS goal scoring lead with two matches left, sitting on 16 for the year. With 13 assists alongside that, his 29 total goal contributions are best in the league, above the 27 of Thiago Almada and 25 of Hany Mukhtar. Acosta ranks as the second-highest rated player by WhoScored this season across all of Major League Soccer.

You wonder if he's going to be rested tonight with the Supporters' Shield and No. 1 seed locked up. It would be devastating for him to be injured in a meaningless game, regardless of the opponent.

"Luciano Acosta's the MVP... He's been an unbelievable player for us this year." @fccincinnati goalkeeper @roman_413 had nothing but praise for @LuchoAcosta94 and Pat Noonan 🟠🔵 pic.twitter.com/Xyp2ozr7n5 — CBS Sports Golazo ⚽️ (@CBSSportsGolazo) October 3, 2023

1 hour 15 mins to kick: Lionel Messi was nominated for not only MLS Newcomer of the Year for the 2023 season, but also 2023 MLS MVP.

Laughable doesn't even begin to describe that blatant PR move, considering that most of the damage Messi has done for Inter Miami has come in Cup competitions. He has one goal and two assists in 247 minutes of play in actual MLS competition. Lionel Messi has been fun, but let's hope the league doesn't make a mockery of itself by actually giving Messi either honor.

1 hour 30 mins to kick: As if Inter Miami's predicament tonight wasn't difficult enough, requiring a victory to keep their playoff hopes alive, it will have to come against the best team in Major League Soccer through the 2023 regular season.

FC Cincinnati won the Supporters' Shield as the regular season champion, confirmed on Wednesday despite suffering defeat. It's been an exceptional season for the club, and they won't stop here just because they have nothing tangible left to gain over the final few matches.

Campeones!!! 🏆⚽️🏆 2023 supporters’ shield winners 🟠🔵 pic.twitter.com/96ckfHkKEp — Santiago Arias (@santiagoarias13) October 7, 2023

1 hour 45 mins to kick: It's Fan Appreciation Night at DRV PNK Stadium, where they're giving out Inter Miami bucket hats to the first few fans through the gates.

That's nice and all, but the best way to appreciate the fans would be to not price out the loyal supporters from season tickets next year. Instead, Inter Miami has jacked 2024 membership rates to put the club amongst some of the most expensive tickets in not just MLS, but the world.

While there will certainly be folks who can afford those high-demand tickets, many of those individuals won't be the same fans who have supported the club from its inception in 2020. This means Inter Miami have chosen to secure maximum profit at the expense of its fanbase, and a high turnover amongst the regular in-person support from this season to next is likely.

MORE: Inter Miami season tickets for 2024 season see unprecedented jump in price

(Also, you'll notice a photo of Lionel Messi's jersey hanging in his locker in that tweet below, a pretty good indication that he'll return tonight)

Scene is set for Fan Appreciation Night 🏟️#MIAvCIN | 7:30 PM ET pic.twitter.com/9I07uq9hGW — Inter Miami CF (@InterMiamiCF) October 7, 2023

2 hours to kickoff: A report from well-connected Argentine journalist Gaston Edul last night indicated that Inter Miami are likely to have Lionel Messi back for this match in some capacity. Edul reported that "the idea is for Leo Messi to get minutes when Inter Miami plays FC Cincinnati".

That makes it sound like Messi will only be available off the bench, but it's better than nothing to have a game-changer like him available at all.

MORE: Details on Lionel Messi's injury as he battles "fatigue" and a "scar tissue issue".

La idea es que Leo Messi vuelva a sumar minutos mañana cuando Inter Miami juegue contra Cincinnati. pic.twitter.com/ePNWHb4vSs — Gastón Edul (@gastonedul) October 6, 2023

Inter Miami vs FC Cincinnati lineups & team news

There was a report that Lionel Messi could finally make his return from injury, and while it felt unlikely that Messi would start three days after missing out entirely, he appears on the bench today and could be available for a second half appearance if required.

Jordi Alba remains sidelined with a hamstring injury, missing since his injury just minutes before Messi, and without a publicly known timeline for a return. Also missing is striker Leonardo Campana who was absent from the midweek defeat to the Chicago Fire with a muscle injury, although Gerardo Martino described his issue as "minor."

Important midfielder Gregore, who has missed most of the season with a foot injury, is back in training and should return to the field at some point, although when is not known. Defender Tomas Aviles is back from suspension and starts in the three center-back system.

Inter Miami starting lineup (5-3-2): Callender (GK) — Yedlin, Aviles, Kryvtsov, Miller, Allen — Ruiz, Busquets, Cremaschi — Farias, Martinez.

Inter Miami subs (12): Dos Santos (GK), Sailor, Taylor, Mota, Arroyo, Ulloa, Robinson, Messi, Stefanelli.

Defender Alvas Powell is suspended for the match after being sent off against the New York Red Bulls last time out, with Santiago Arias stepping in at right-back.

FC Cincinnati are otherwise light on availability concerns, with only a leg injury for Arquimides Ordonez and a long-term injury to young midfielder Stiven Jimenez to worry about.

Talisman forward Luciano Acosta was partially rested midweek, coming off the bench to score the team's only goal against the Red Bulls in 32 minutes of play, so he is ready to go as he chases the league's Golden Boot award. Also rested midweek was Alvaro Barreal who leads the team in minutes and also logged just 32 of them on Wednesday.

FC Cincinnati starting lineup (5-3-2): Celentano (GK) — Arias, Hagglund, Miazga, Murphy, Barreal — Nwobodo, Acosta, Moreno — Vazquez, Santos.

FC Cincinnati subs (9): Kann (GK), Kubo, Mosquera, Angulo, Badji, Pinto, Halsey, Valenzuela, Boupendza.

How to watch Inter Miami vs FC Cincinnati

MORE: Watch Premier League matches live with Fubo in USA

TV channel Streaming Global — Apple TV+ (MLS Season Pass)

Inter Miami vs FC Cincinnati betting odds & lines

In Canada, bet MLS at Sports Interaction: See the latest odds for Inter Miami vs FC Cincinnati here