The second of Sinner’s Djokovic victories came in Italy’s impressive Davis Cup semi-final triumph over Serbia, after saving three consecutive match points on serve, before besting the world No.1 again in the doubles. World No.4 Sinner, coached by Australia’s Darren Cahill, is the first player to topple Djokovic twice in the same season since Russia’s Daniil Medvedev in 2019. Italian teammates Lorenzo Sonego and Jannik Sinner will face Australia in the Davis Cup final. Credit: Getty However, if Popyrin can get the job done in the No.2 singles then Australia will, at minimum, reach the doubles with a live chance, and a good one, with 2022 Wimbledon champions Max Purcell and Matt Ebden to be unleashed. The query is whether Italian captain Filippo Volandri will turn to Lorenzo Musetti, who battled a leg issue at the end of his three-set loss to Serbia’s Miomir Kecmanovic, or one of Lorenzo Sonego or Matteo Arnaldi.

Popyrin won his only ATP Tour clash with Musetti – who has been as high as No.15 in the world – in a tight two-setter at last year’s Miami Masters, but the emerging Italian claimed three of their four showdowns at the next level down. He is yet to play against Sonego, who Arthurs expects to play. “I’m assuming they will back in Popyrin because he played pretty well a couple of nights ago, and with his firepower – he’s probably the key to the tie,” Arthurs said. “He’s showing all the signs of becoming a top-25 player in the next couple of years. His junior career suggested he was going to be a very good player, and it’s unusual for someone to win the junior French Open and not go on to something big. Alexei Popyrin celebrates with Australian captain Lleyton Hewitt after his Davis Cup win. Credit: Getty Images “These moments can be a big springboard for someone like Alexei. He’s a confidence player, and this is a very big moment – whoever he plays, Musetti or Sonego. But he’s got to go out and embrace the moment, and he’s the type of player who will enjoy it.

“I’d love to give de Minaur a chance with his fighting abilities, but the way Sinner has played the last six months, you’d have to say Sinner is the favourite.” Loading Hewitt animatedly embraced Popyrin after his straight-sets victory over 171st-ranked Finn Otto Virtanen, but Australia’s Davis Cup captain would be even more thrilled if he could repeat the dose against Italy. Australia could also turn to an alternative No.2 singles option, with Jordan Thompson and Purcell waiting in the wings. “It’s everybody’s dream to play for their country,” Popyrin said. “I looked up to Lleyton, looked up to all the older Aussie legends. To be able to put on the green and gold, to be able to go out there and play for your country, no matter the format, if it’s this Davis Cup or the old Davis Cup, you give your all.

“It’s nerves, it’s pressure – you’re playing for everybody back home. It’s something that nothing will ever compare to ... it really was the biggest moment of my career to get the first live rubber win, to get one foot into the final. It was something that I’ll never forget.” Loading Australia, who lost last year’s final to Canada, has enjoyed a soft run on paper to this year’s decider, eliminating the Czech Republic and Finland – with neither country boasting a top-30 singles player – but will have earned their 29th Davis Cup title if they account for Italy. Canada defeated Italy in the Davis Cup round-robin matches in September, but bowed out to Finland in the knockout stage without Felix Auger-Aliassime and Denis Shapovalov, who have both battled injury and form. The final is due to start at 2am AEDT on Monday and will be broadcast on 9GEM.

Sinner ends Djoker’s Davis Cup dream Novak Djokovic’s dream of capping his great season by blasting Serbia past Australia in the Davis Cup final was blown up by Jannik Sinner’s extraordinary double triumph over the world No.1. Instead, in the Davis Cup final in Malaga, Australia will face an Italy team running hot on the heroics of their golden boy Sinner, who beat Djokovic in both the singles and the doubles in the space of five exhilarating hours in their semi-final on Saturday (Sunday AEDT). Jannik Sinner saved three match points before going on to beat Novak Djokovic. Credit: Getty Images In one of the great Davis Cup rubbers, Djokovic had held three match points against Sinner and was on the verge of a completing a relatively workaday 2-0 victory for the Serbs.

But for only the fourth time in his unparalleled career, Djokovic was beaten from match-point up as Sinner roared back to complete his second victory over the master in just 12 days, winning 6-2, 2-6, 7-5. The 22-year-old Sinner, by now an irresistible force, then re-emerged to team up with Lorenzo Sonego and spray massive forehand winners around liberally as they outplayed a by now weary-looking Djokovic and Miomir Kecmanovic 6-3, 6-4. Djokovic had three match points in the singles rubber. Credit: Getty Images It was a crushing end to Djokovic’s hopes of ending his triumphant season, which has featured three grand slam victories and an ATP finals showdown victory over Sinner just six days ago, with a second Davis Cup title. After telling fans to “shut up” earlier in the week, he again got irritated with the crowd in the doubles, pretending to be the conductor to the Italian fans’ deafening chorus, but though he may be the greatest player who ever picked up a racquet, doubles looks an alien game to him.

His serve was broken in the first set and his court positioning left a big hole for Sinner to blast his forehand through the world No.1 and Kecmanovic, who had earlier worn down Lorenzo Musetti 6-7 (7-9), 6-2, 6-1 in the tie’s opening singles. The tie, though, will forever be remembered for Sinner’s comeback triumph in their third brilliant singles duel in less than a fortnight. This time, the Sinner of the Turin group stages re-emerged, the young titan reprising his victory of 12 days ago when he became the only man since Djokovic’s Wimbledon final loss to Carlos Alcaraz to defeat the 24-time grand slam champion. Here he did something even more astonishing when, after soaking up immense pressure throughout the deciding set, he stared at 0-40 on his serve at 4-5. Yet the 22-year-old proved absolutely nerveless, firing down an ace to save the third of the three match points, and then immediately turning the tables by breaking Djokovic in the very next game amid wild Italian celebrations in the stands at the Palacio de deportes Martin Carpena.

Sinner then served out for a famous win, ending Djokovic’s cherished unbeaten 21-singles winning streak in the Davis Cup and becoming the first man since 2019 to beat the Serb in singles twice in the same year. The drama between the two rivals wasn’t over, as the two teams inevitably both drafted in their top singles players into the doubles decider. Sinner was again magnificent and still looking ominously fresh after more than four hours on court, with Djokovic’s weak backhand into the net off the Italian’s second serve in the doubles on match point seeming to sum up his disappointment. The beneficiaries of all this? Lleyton Hewitt’s Australian side, who were happily enjoying a day’s rest at their team hotel further down the Costa del Sol, watching the drama unfold on TV.

While the Italy tie didn’t finish until 8.15pm after a noon start, Alex de Minaur and co should be fresh for combat in Sunday afternoon’s (Monday AEDT) final as they seek to lift the Davis Cup for the first time in 20 years. AAP De Minaur, Popyrin power Australia into Davis Cup final Lleyton Hewitt has declared his close-knit tennis band of brothers will give it “a hell of a shake” to bring back the Davis Cup to Australia after they roared into another final in Malaga. Following their 2-0 victory over Finland in Friday’s semi-final, executed superbly without a dropped set in singles wins for Alexei Popyrin and Alex de Minaur, team captain Hewitt said he couldn’t be prouder of their achievement in making back-to-back finals.

And even though they’ll be facing either a Serbian side led by world No.1 Novak Djokovic or an Italian team inspired by young superstar Jannik Sinner in Sunday’s (Monday AEDT) final, the inspirational de Minaur was adamant: “No one really wants to play us.” He delivered once more for Australia, taking an 11th victory in his last 13 cup singles matches, sealing Friday’s (Saturday AEDT) win by defeating Emil Ruusuvuori 6-4, 6-3. Alex de Minaur stretches to return the ball against Finland’s Emil Ruusuvuori. Credit: AP It had followed a superb win from teammate Popyrin, who defied jangling nerves to earn a 7-6 (7-5), 6-2 victory over Otto Virtanen. It meant the Australians’ crack doubles team of Max Purcell and Matt Ebden weren’t even needed.

It will be Australia’s 49th appearance in the Davis Cup final, as they seek the trophy for the 29th t28-time champions Australia, in a 49th final, seek a first win in the World Cup of men’s tennis in 20 years. “We’re a very solid squad, a lot of depth in every single position, and if we can get ourselves to a deciding doubles, we’ve got an unbelievable pairing as well,” de Minaur said. “So we singles guys have just got do our best to try and get a win and let the doubles guys do the job. “Hopefully we can go one better this year,” he added, recalling the 2-0 defeat by Canada in 2022. De Minaur had been the hero on Wednesday, pulling out an extraordinary comeback win over Jiri Lehecka with Australia on the verge of defeat in their quarter-final with the Czech Republic.

But he was happy to pass the laurels to Popyrin, a late squad replacement who’d been asked to take on the troublesome “second singles” role by Hewitt. Loading “Alexei hasn’t played for Australia in a very long time [two years], had a massive match today against a very high-quality opponent and dug super deep,” said de Minaur. Popyrin managed to deliver a rock solid game, making only 11 unforced errors to his erratic opponent’s 25, to prevail in just under an hour-and-a-half. “It was probably the biggest win of my career,” he admitted. “To win a match that means so much to us, it’s an honour and something I’ll never forget. Nothing compares to this.

“I thought I was ready but when I came out and heard the two sets of fans chanting so hard, but it was nerves that I’ve never experienced before.” Loading It wasn’t easy. The pressure was on with Thanasi Kokkinakis, the injured teammate he’d replaced, Purcell and Jordan Thompson having all lost opening singles ties in this year’s competition, and Popyrin struggled too against a big-hitting 22-year-old going for broke. But after repelling a set point in the opening stanza, Popyrin’s solidity in comparison to his increasingly erratic opponent helped silence a noisy contingent of Finnish fans, who’d been hoping to cheer their underdogs to a first-ever final. De Minaur, cheered on by his excited mum, then didn’t need similar heroics to Wednesday’s as he overcame the loss of the first two games.