The laggards On the losing end, energy companies (down one per cent) weighed down the index. Woodside (down 0.8 per cent), Santos (down 0.4 per cent) and Ampol (down 1.2 per cent) dropped, along with coal miners Yancoal (down 1.7 per cent) and Whitehaven (down 2 per cent). Lynas Rare Earths (down 3.1 per cent) was the biggest large-cap decliner, while industrials companies (down 0.2 per cent) including Computershare (down 2.9 per cent), Seven West Holdings (down 1.9 per cent) and Worley (down 1.3 per cent) were also weaker. The lowdown

TMS Capital portfolio manager Ben Clark said the big news for markets on Monday was the trading update from Westpac, which he said led a resurgence in the banking sector’s performance. “Westpac’s results were better than expected, especially because it’s been a bit of a perennial underperformer in the past few years,” he said, adding that it set the tone for results from NAB and ANZ, which are due to report in the next week. Loading Clark also said there was a reversal of the interest-rate trade seen in recent weeks. “Long-term bond yields came off quite significantly in the last few days following weaker than expected employment data on Friday, which has seen some investors swivel back into growth stocks,” he said. The market has now switched from pricing in an 80 per cent chance of a rate rise on Tuesday to 50-50, Clark said.

On Wall Street, the S&P 500 climbed 40.56 points on Friday, or 0.9 per cent, to 4,358.3. The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 222.24, or 0.7 per cent, to 34,061.32, and the Nasdaq composite jumped 184.09, or 1.4 per cent, to 13,478.28. Stocks surged through the week on rising hopes that the Federal Reserve is finally done with its market-crunching hikes to interest rates, in order to get inflation under control. A report on Friday underscored that pressure is easing on inflation after it showed employers hired fewer workers last month than economists expected. It’s a stunning turnaround from just a week ago, when Wall Street was reeling after the S&P 500 had fallen 10 per cent below its high point for the year. That sent Wall Street’s main index into what investors call a “correction.” Since then strong profit reports helped drive some stocks to towering gains. Generac, a maker of back-up generators, soared nearly 28 per cent for its best week since its stock began trading in 2010. At Expedia Group, another stronger-than-forecast report sent its stock nearly 22 per cent higher for its best week since the market was surging out of the coronavirus crash in early 2020. But it was interest rates, yields and inflation that were at the centre of all the wild movements for financial markets around the world.

Before last week, stocks had been struggling under the weight of rapidly rising Treasury yields. Those yields were in turn catching up to the Fed’s main interest rate, which is above 5.25 per cent and at its highest level since 2001. Loading Higher rates and yields slow the economy, hurt prices for investments and raise the risk of something breaking within the financial system, such as the three high-profile US bank failures that rattled financial markets during the spring. “It was really fear that the Fed was going to go too far,” said Katie Nixon, chief investment officer for Northern Trust Wealth Management. The Fed put such pressure on the economy intentionally, hoping to starve inflation of its fuel. It wants the job market to cool, particularly pay raises going to workers. The Fed fears too-strong pay gains could create a vicious cycle that keeps inflation high.

Analysts said Friday’s jobs report offered encouraging signals for the Fed, with average hourly earnings rising less in October from September than expected, though it doesn’t mean the job is done. Treasury yields in the bond market tumbled immediately after the jobs report, releasing more of the pressure that had built up on Wall Street. The yield on the 10-year Treasury eased to 4.52 per cent from 4.67 per cent late Thursday and from more than five per cent last week, when it hit its highest level since 2007. In the US, traders are moving up expectations for when the first cut to interest rates by the Fed could happen, potentially by the summer, according to data from CME Group. Such cuts can act like steroids for financial markets. For investors around the world, the “Fed matters more than other central banks,” and weak US data is “the only game-changer for markets”, foreign-exchange strategists at Bank of America wrote in a BofA Global Research report. A separate report on Friday said growth in US services industries, such as finance and construction, was weaker last month than economists expected. The report from the Institute for Supply Management also suggested a slight easing in prices.

Excitement about a potentially easier Fed was more than enough to offset a fall for Apple, which is Wall Street’s most influential stock. The most valuable US stock fell 0.5 per cent despite reporting stronger profit for the latest quarter than analysts expected. Analysts said investors were likely disappointed with Apple’s forecast for revenue for the last three months of 2023. Tweet of the day

Quote of the day “Our view is that in the high likelihood there is another cash rate increase on Tuesday, that is going to be the nail in the coffin for consumer confidence,” said CreditorWatch chief economist Anneke Thompson, amid warnings from some economists that another rate rise, as some market watchers are predicting, will dampen spending intentions just in time for Christmas. You may have missed The men who built pubs and liquor juggernaut Endeavour Group into the world’s largest poker machine operator have triggered a public spat over the future of a business that they say has lost its way.