For 59 minutes, the story of Week 13's 'Sunday Night Football' clash was Jordan Love. The first-year starter continued to showcase his evolution as a big-game player, dicing up Kansas City's All-World defense with incredible efficiency.

Then came the blown calls.

The Packers edged past the Chiefs on Sunday, beneficiaries of another Love masterpiece — an increasingly common sight in the 2023 season. But it was the game's final moments that drew the most intrigue, mostly because of their incredulous nature.

Jonathan Owens was whistled for an unnecessary roughness that never was on the game's final drive, penalized for crashing into a scrambling Patrick Mahomes on the field of play. Soon after, Marquez Valdes-Scantling was seemingly impeded by Green Bay cornerback Carrington Valentine on a streak play, an unabashed pass interference call in most circumstances. The umpires fell silent.

If that weren't enough, Owens then barged into Kelce's back on the final play of the game and Mahomes' Hail Mary tumbled onto the turf. And like the previous play, the contact went unrecognized by the zebras.

It was a sorry end to an enthralling contest. Love and Mahomes dueled like gladiators, each painting pictures atop the verdant green canvas.

Love was the better man on the day. He completed 25-of-36 passes for 267 yards, three touchdowns and no interceptions. It's his fourth game with three touchdowns and no interceptions this year. That's tied for most in the league.

MORE: Watch Chiefs vs. Packers live with Fubo (free trial)

It was beautiful, chaotic, messy and eye-catching. Above all else, it was cold. And although there are a number of ballads to be written about the calls that could have been, for now, the Packers won't care. They're back in the postseason race, all on the back of their lithe young hurler.

Miss any of the game? The Sporting News tracked live updates from Sunday's clash under the lights at Lambeau Field below.

Chiefs vs. Packers final score

Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Final Chiefs 3 3 6 7 19 Packers 7 7 7 6 27

Chiefs vs. Packers results, highlights from 'Sunday Night Football'

(All times Eastern)

11:28 p.m.: Game. Set. Match. Mahomes' Hail Mary falls harmlessly to the turf, giving the Packers a much-needed win. What a game!

11:25 p.m.: Proper make-up call by the referees there, as Valdez-Scantling was almost certainly impeded illegally while streaking down the field. Should've been a pass interference. It wasn't, though. And now, Kansas City could be on the brink of losing.

11:22 p.m.: Whole lot of laundry left back on the field. Looked like Rashee Rice may have fumbled the rock while scampering down the field. However, he was ruled down with contact. At which point Pacheco threw a punch at Nixon, prompting an ejection. Nice...

11:18 p.m.: Referees make a baffling unnecessary roughness call on Jonathan Owens, gifting the Chiefs an extra 20 yards. That could prove vital.

11:14 p.m.: FIELD GOAL! And it's good! Right down the middle! What a kick by Carlson. Packers lead grows back to eight.

Packers 27, Chiefs 19

11:12 p.m.: Love takes a sack 10 yards behind the line-of-scrimmage, setting up a rather difficult 48-yard attempt for Carlson on fourth down. The Packers desperately need their rookie kicker to come through in the clutch.

11:11 p.m.: Watson goes down with yet another injury. This one looked like it could be a hamstring niggle. Really unfortunate end to the game for the second-year wideout, who was enjoying one of the best games of his young career.

10:59 p.m.: INTERCEPTION! It looked like the Chiefs were on the brink of another lengthy drive. At least until Mahomes tossed a pass toward Packers corner Keisean Nixon. The noted return man pulled down an over-the-shoulder grab to break Missourians' hearts. What a grab. What a moment!

10:53 p.m.: FIELD GOAL! Anders Carlson sinks his 40-yard attempt as Green Bay continues to set the pace. Chiefs still in striking distance, though.

Packers 24, Chiefs 19

10:52 p.m.: Mike Danna sends Love spiraling after frolicking into the pocket on third down. Just what the doctor ordered if you're Kansas City, who look poised to force the Packers to bring their field goal team out.

10:50 p.m.: Malik Heath drops a defender after fielding a pass on a curl pattern. Green Bay has found a real rhythm in its latest drive.

10:46 p.m.: Another inch-perfect throw from Love to Doubs. Throwing off your back foot has never looked so clean.

Romeo Doubs got much more than the 16 yards needed for the first down



📺: #KCvsGB on NBC

📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/CQH1cx3gZS pic.twitter.com/BKmoRsoe7R — NFL (@NFL) December 4, 2023

10:43 p.m.: For the first time today, the ball is punted following a three-and-out. Green Bay defense held firm on that one. Love has a chance to add to the Packers' lead.

10:39 p.m.: For the first time in ages, the Packers fail to conjure up any magic on offense. Chiefs finally get the ball. back with a chance to take the lead.

10:28 p.m.: TOUCHDOWN! Mahomes finds Noah Gray with a peel route to bring the Packers' lead back down to two. Your move, Mr. Love.

Noah Gray wide open in the end zone from 2 yards out



📺: #KCvsGB on NBC

📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/CQH1cx3gZS pic.twitter.com/SFNXGRVAga — NFL (@NFL) December 4, 2023

Packers 21, Chiefs 19

End of third quarter: Packers 21, Chiefs 12

10:23 p.m.: Pacheco is as hard-nosed as they come. Just carried an entire pile on his back to take the ball to the goal line. What a showing by the second-year ball-carrier, who is up over the century mark today.

Isiah Pacheco with a little help from his friends 😮



📺: #KCvsGB on NBC

📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/CQH1cx3gZS pic.twitter.com/nAohFvTg0S — NFL (@NFL) December 4, 2023

10:11 p.m.: TOUCHDOWN! And again! Loves lines one right into the path of Watson, who leaps high to rip it from the sky to add to the Packers' edge. What a showcase by Love and what a grab by Watson.

Packers 21, Chiefs 12

10:10 p.m.: Love places a throw perfectly between triple coverage, hitting a streaking Romeo Doubs to put Green Bay on the doorstep of the end zone once more. What a phenomenal throw by the youngster.

10:03 p.m.: Love hits Dillon out in the front, who makes his defender miss before racing beyond the marker for a first down. The first-year starter continues to make the right play in the cold. Strong display thus far.

9:57 p.m.: TOUCHDOWN! Chiefs get into the end zone finally, courtesy of a Pacheco scamper through the midway. He's unable to find the target again on the two-point conversion, however, keeping the Packers in control (just barely).

Packers 14, Chiefs 12

9:54 p.m.: Mahomes does it again! Delicate touch pass between the Magic Man and Kelce results in yet another first down on third-and-long. Kelce's up to 81 yards on four grabs. Kansas City is threatening to breach into the red zone.

9:47 p.m.: Mahomes hits Kelce with a floated effort as the Chiefs open the first half with a flourish. Need more of that going forward.

End of second quarter: Packers 14, Chiefs 6

9:10 p.m.: FIELD GOAL! Kansas City's explosive offense has been held in check thus far. Despite showing flashes of what they can accomplish, the Chiefs were held to another field goal in this one. Yikes...

Packers 14. Chiefs 6

9:00 p.m.: TOUCHDOWN! Green Bay's second drive of the game ends much like the first, with Love firing an arrow to Watson to add to Green Bay's early advantage.

Packers 14, Chiefs 3

End of first quarter: Packers 7, Chiefs 3

8:50 p.m.: FIELD GOAL! Harrison Butler sinks his field goal after a pair of sacks relegate Kansas City to bringing its special teams onto the field.

Packers 7, Chiefs 3

8:48 p.m.: Isiah Pacheco gallops on the outside to grab a heap of yardage. Kansas City is on the brink of a score.

8:47 p.m.: Great composure by Mahomes and Marquez Valdez-Scantling, both of whom combine to keep Kansas City in the ascendancy.

8:45 p.m.: Clyde Edwards-Helair keeps the chains moving after strutting through the trenches on third down. KC is into Green Bay territory.

8:42 p.m.: Patrick Mahomes leads the Chiefs out for their first possession. And it's gotten off to a good start thus far; two plays, two first downs for Kansas City.

8:39 p.m.: TOUCHDOWN! Love hits Ben Sims for his first career touchdown! Great throw, great catch, and an even better drive. Doesn't get much slicker than that to start the game.

First NFL TD for Ben Sims ✅

First Lambeau Leap for Ben Sims ✅



📺: #KCvsGB on NBC

📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/CQH1cx3gZS pic.twitter.com/VBgaxibcsI — NFL (@NFL) December 4, 2023

Packers 7, Chiefs 0

8:35 p.m.: Dontayvion Wicks makes the catch though traffic, racing beyond the first down marker to bring Green Bay on the cusp of the end zone.

8:28 p.m.: A.J. Dillon bursts through the mire to pick up the first down on third-and-short. Decent start for the Packers so far, who have climbed down the gridiron with relative ease in the opening few minutes.

8:26 p.m.: Wonderful pitch and catch between Love and one of his favorite targets, Christian Watson. Good for a 20-yard gain. Green Bay trots into Kansas City territory.

8:23 p.m.: The ball tumbles into the end zone and away we go! Love and the Packers spill onto the field to lead off tonight's matchup in the cold.

8:22 p.m.: Jordan Love's first career start came against the Chiefs in 2021. He'll be hoping for a better showing this time around. Given the level that he's been playing at in recent weeks, he has a good chance of doing so.

8:00 p.m.: Will Kelce put on a showcase in front of her beau? The world will find out soon enough...

Travis Kelce takes the field for another prime time game with Taylor Swift.

(Via: @Chiefs)



📺: NBC & Peacock pic.twitter.com/baSjmT7IR5 — Sunday Night Football on NBC (@SNFonNBC) December 4, 2023

Travis Kelce takes the field for another prime time game with Taylor Swift.

(Via: @Chiefs)



📺: NBC & Peacock pic.twitter.com/baSjmT7IR5 — Sunday Night Football on NBC (@SNFonNBC) December 4, 2023

7:40 p.m.: The Chiefs are rocking their all-white kits. Perfect for a winter wonderland like Lambeau Field, don't you think?

7:35 p.m.: Taylor's fans are in euphoria at the sight of her at tonight's game. Can you blame them?

The Swifties were ready for Taylor Swift's arrival! pic.twitter.com/6L0XDhikIl — Sunday Night Football on NBC (@SNFonNBC) December 4, 2023

7:20 p.m.: Taylor Swift is in attendance for tonight's game. Hopefully, she'll be greeted with an enthralling affair.

Taylor Swift and Brittany Mahomes are cheering on the Chiefs in Green Bay! #ChiefsKingdom



📺: @NBC & @Peacock pic.twitter.com/phvMXDOH8s — Sunday Night Football on NBC (@SNFonNBC) December 4, 2023

Taylor Swift and Brittany Mahomes are cheering on the Chiefs in Green Bay! #ChiefsKingdom



📺: @NBC & @Peacock pic.twitter.com/phvMXDOH8s — Sunday Night Football on NBC (@SNFonNBC) December 4, 2023

What channel is Chiefs vs. Packers on today?

TV channel : NBC (U.S.) | TSN 1/4 (Canada)

: NBC (U.S.) | TSN 1/4 (Canada) Live stream: Peacock, Fubo (U.S.) | DAZN (Canada)

Per usual, this week's edition of 'Sunday Night Football' will be broadcast on NBC. Cris Collinsworth (color analyst) returns to the fore, joining lead broadcaster Mike Tirico and sideline reporter Melissa Stark.

Cord-cutters can find the action on Peacock or Fubo, which offers a free trial.

Viewers in Canada can watch on DAZN, which carries every NFL game, or on TSN 1/4.

Chiefs vs. Packers start time

Date : Sunday, Dec. 3

: Sunday, Dec. 3 Start time: 8:20 p.m. ET

The Chiefs and Packers will clash at Lambeau Field in Green Bay, with kickoff slated for 8:20 p.m. ET.