As Manchester United's season continues to slip away, the pressure around Dutch boss Erik ten Hag continues to get more palpable.

The latest slip saw the Red Devils crash out of Europe as they fell 1-0 to Bayern Munich on the final day of Champions League group-stage play, finishing bottom of their four-team group to leave them eliminated from Europe in their worst performance in the competition since 2005.

On top of that, they set the record for most goals against in a Champions League group stage by an English club, with 15 conceded in their six games. Their defensive record has collapsed as the season goes on: from a Premier League standpoint, they sit eighth in the English top flight, but their -5 goal differential is the worst of any club in the top 10.

With Jim Ratcliffe having now completed the formalities around his investment into the club, taking control of 25% of his boyhood club after a year of negotiations, the pressure will be piled on even more. Indeed, Ratcliffe wants United back at "the very top of world football".

The Sporting News has laid out all the options should Man United move on from Ten Hag and look for a new beginning, in the hopes of salvaging the 2023/24 season.

MORE: How Man United produced their worst Champions League group stage in 18 years

Man United next manager: Assessing candidates to replace Erik ten Hag

If Manchester United decide to pull the plug on Erik ten Hag's managerial tenure at Old Trafford, there aren't any perfect options for his replacement.

That allows us to speculate some as to who could slot in as the next man hoping to take United back to former glories, which still evade the club since the departure of Sir Alex Ferguson over a decade ago.

Zinedine Zidane

The former Real Madrid manager has been out of work since departing the Spanish club in 2021, clearly waiting for the right position to open up. He was heavily rumoured to be in line for the France position once the 2022 World Cup finished, but Didier Deschamps surprised many by signing a new contract.

Zidane would be a top choice for United, as he would be for many top clubs with a managerial vacancy, but there's questions around whether he would be open to signing on. The 51-year-old told Marca back in June of 2022 that he isn't exactly thrilled about a Premier League job due to the language barrier.

When asked specifically about a possible job opening in Manchester, Zidane said: "I understand English, but I don't master it completely. I know that there are coaches who go to clubs without speaking the language, but I work in a different way. Many elements come into play to win. It is a global context." Does he still feel the same way?

Graham Potter

While Potter's time at Chelsea crashed and burned, many still rate the former Brighton & Hove Albion boss highly and he could be in line for a project job such as this. Indeed, there have previously been rumours that Sir Jim Ratcliffe, the INEOS founder on the brink of purchasing a 25 per cent stake in United, would like Potter at the club. He has been out of work since his Blues tenure came to a close back in April, but it would be a hard sell to fans after his time with the London club went so poorly.

Roberto De Zerbi

One of the fastest rising managers in the game, Brighton manager Roberto De Zerbi is known for his tactical innovation in transitional play, and his name has cropped up a number of times when big clubs have an opening.

The 44-year-old Italian has led the tiny club to new heights, qualifying for the Europa League for the first time in club history and establishing themselves as top-four contenders, building upon the success under Graham Potter. Yet could Potter's failure at Chelsea cause some trepidation around another Brighton success story moving on up?

Michael Carrick

This list wouldn't be complete without mention of the likeliest of those with direct Manchester United links. Former United midfielder Michael Carrick, who made 316 appearances for the club over a 12-year Old Trafford tenure, is at Championship club Middlesbrough, his first permanent managerial appointment. They sit 11th in the second tier as of mid-December, just three points back of the playoff spots in a crowded top half.

Carrick's lack of experience is glaring, but hiring someone with deep knowledge of the club could be very enticing, and the fact he hasn't bombed in his first job is notable. The 42-year-old has also led the Red Devils before on a caretaker basis, installed back in 2021 after Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's dismissal and leading the club to some big wins over Arsenal in league play and Villarreal in the Champions League before Ralf Rangnick took over.

Hansi Flick

The former German national-team manager only lasted two years on the job with Die Mannschaft, before their failures at the 2022 World Cup caught up with him. Yet Flick has big club experience, having led Bayern Munich first as an assistant under Niko Kovac and then for two years as manager, winning the treble in 2019/20 en route to being named UEFA Coach of the Year.

Yet Flick's lack of experience of any kind outside Germany — he has just one year abroad, as an assistant at Red Bull Salzburg — coupled with his struggles at the national-team level could give some pause at bringing him to England for such a project position.

Antonio Conte

Former Chelsea and Tottenham boss Conte hasn't cropped up near the top of any betting lists, but there could be some sense in hiring the Italian to take over at Old Trafford. Conte has been out of work since his acrimonious departure from Tottenham this past summer, after he seemingly shoved his way out of the club amidst reports he was utterly miserable in London.

While the idea of a control freak such as Conte taking over the Manchester United mess could easily be a recipe for disaster, the club could also seek out a fixer of his nature, hoping for an immediate boost they can build on once things crumble under the Italian, as they often do. Still, the Red Devils would likely have competition as he seems to prefer working in his home country.

Julen Lopetegui

Fifty-seven-year-old Spanish boss Lopetegui represents maybe the perfect mix of experience, availability, and interest as Manchester United seek out possible new managers. Lopetegui is most known for his time in charge of the Spanish national team, where he succeeded Vincente del Bosque, but he also has big club experience at Real Madrid.

Lopetegui has also managed in the Premier League, seemingly on an upward trajectory at Wolves before abruptly leaving just days before the current season amidst tension with the board. And therein lies the issue around Lopetegui: he has left multiple positions in mysterious and awkward circumstances, with his Wolves exit reminiscent of his departure from the Spanish national team, where he suddenly departed just days before the start of the 2018 World Cup as news of his discussions with Real Madrid came to light. Between those two incidents, and his failed tenures at Madrid and Sevilla, would he be worth the risk at Old Trafford?

Names that don't make sense as next Man United manager

Julian Nagelsmann

While the German's name has come up in betting circles as a possibility for the next Manchester United manager, there's no sense to this actually taking place. Nagelsmann was only recently hired as the head coach of the German national team, meaning there's no chance he is available until after Euro 2024 at the earliest, and in that case, it's likely that Germany flopped at their own tournament, meaning his hire would probably be quite sour. This one just doesn't add up.

Lionel Scaloni

While it's conceivable that the Argentine could become available at a moment's notice amid speculation of his potential exit with the defending World Cup champions, this feels an unlikely pairing. Should he indeed leave Argentina, Scaloni has been open about his mental fatigue and is likely to take some time off from management. In the event he does return quickly, he's been heavily linked to Real Madrid as a possible replacement for the Carlo Ancelotti, who is expected to become the next permanent Brazil head coach.

It's hard to imagine that Scaloni, who seemingly craves stability and routine, has no experience at club level, and lacks ties to the Premier League or Old Trafford (beyond a brief loan spell with West Ham as a player in 2006) would be a match for Manchester United in any capacity.

Gareth Southgate

You can sense a trend here as another currently employed national-team manager is mentioned in England boss Southgate. While he's been linked to the United job before, it would take a perfect storm for him to be installed, whether on a permanent basis or as an interim stopgap option.

Some believe he could be considered next summer once the Euros are over: it has been speculated that Southgate could leave his England post following next summer's tournament, with his contract expiring in December next year. However, it's also possible he decides to stay on for the 2026 World Cup cycle, particularly if England have a good tournament in Germany. In that instance, he would only be available for double duty on a temporary basis, and that would simply be too messy to outweigh the benefits. Brazil are currently in that boat, and it's all gone wrong for Fernando Diniz despite his Copa Libertadores victory with Fluminense.

Mauricio Pochettino

In the event Todd Boehly proves to sport just as itchy a trigger finger as his successor Roman Abramovich at Chelsea, it's possible that Mauricio Pochettino becomes available should Manchester United look to move on from Erik ten Hag. But would he really be a sellable hire, having just failed in London after bombing at PSG and departing Tottenham in acrimonious manner? It seems unlikely that United would be interested in someone who demands significant club control and will have just been fired from a struggling league rival.

Manchester United managers since Sir Alex Ferguson

If Manchester United were to appoint a new manager, that person would be the ninth coach to take charge of a United team following Sir Alex Ferguson's retirement in May 2013, including caretaker/interim managers Ryan Giggs, Ralf Rangnick and Carrick.

Manager Honours Games David Moyes Community Shield 51 Ryan Giggs (caretaker) — 4 Louis van Gaal FA Cup 103 Jose Mourinho Community Shield, Europa League, League Cup 144 Ole Gunnar Solskjaer — 168 Michael Carrick (caretaker) — 3 Ralf Rangnick (interim) — 29 Erik ten Hag League Cup *

*Still manager of the club