With the United States set to test themselves against one of Europe's most powerful sides, the opponents are entering a transitional phase as well.

Germany are considered one of the preeminent national team programs in the world, but recent years have humbled Die Mannschaft. They have been eliminated in the group stage of two straight World Cup tournaments, an unthinkable slip in stature given they had never been bounced from any World Cup that early in history prior to 2018.

With Hansi Flick unable to steer the team to safer waters in Qatar, Julian Nagelsmann has taken over as new Germany head coach.

At just 36 years old, Nagelsmann is a rising star, having spent three successful seasons at Hoffenheim followed by two years at RB Leipzig, which catapulted him to the managerial post at Bayern Munich in 2021. He steered the Bavarian giants to the Bundesliga title in his first season, but he was sacked by the club in March of 2023 amidst a furious league title fight.

Nagelsmann's dismissal at Bayern Munich came as a shock to much of the European football landscape, as the club had performed exceptionally in the Champions League and was still very much in the title race, sitting just a point behind Dortmund. Now, with a chance for redemption at the helm of the national team, Nagelsmann will see his time begin with a friendly against the United States.

MORE: A look at the 23-man squad for Gregg Berhalter as USMNT play Germany & Ghana

Germany squad, players for USA friendly

Julian Nagelsmann will be very familiar with much of the 26-man German national team squad, as five players hail from his former club Bayern Munich, including critical midfield duo Josh Kimmich and Leon Goretzka, who were instrumental in his setup at Allianz Arena.

Along the back, Nagelsmann has oddly selected five center-backs compared to just two natural full-backs in David Raum and Robin Gosens, both left-sided players, possibly indicating a desire to play a three-CB system, although it's hard to know for sure as Nagelsmann preferred a 4-2-3-1 for much of his club managerial career.

One of the center-backs present in the squad is Mats Hummels, who has not been called in since 2021 and dropped for the entirety of Hansi Flick's time in charge. This came at the expense of Hummels' Borussia Dortmund teammate Nico Schlotterbeck.

First national team call-ups were handed to Kevin Behrens of Union Berlin, Chris Fuhrich of Stuttgart, and Robert Andrich of Bayer Leverkusen. There's a choice for Nagelsmann to make up front, as Niklas Fullkrug has been prolific in his short national team stint, but Thomas Muller is an experienced veteran who is still performing at a high level.

Injuries for Nagelsmann to work around include Serge Gnabry who is out with a broken arm, and Timo Werner who has been touch and go at RB Leipzig with a back problem.

Germany predicted starting lineup vs. USA (4-2-3-1): ter Stegen (GK) — Kimmich, Rudiger, Sule, Raum — Gundogan, Goretzka — Sane, Musiala, Brandt — Fullkrug.

Germany second-choice lineup (4-2-3-1): Leno (GK) — Gross, Tah, Thiaw, Gosens — Andrich, Kimmich — Hoffman, Wirtz, Fuhrich — Muller.

German national team squad for USA, Mexico friendlies

Pos Player Club Caps Goals GK Oliver Baumann Hoffenheim 0 0 GK Bernd Leno Fulham (ENG) 9 0 GK Marc-Andre ter Stegen Barcelona (SPA) 36 0 GK Kevin Trapp Eintracht Frankfurt 7 0 DEF Robin Gosens Union Berlin 18 2 DEF Mats Hummels Borussia Dortmund 76 5 DEF David Raum RB Leipzig 18 0 DEF Antonio Rudiger Real Madrid 62 2 DEF Niklas Sule Borussia Dortmund 47 1 DEF Jonathan Tah Bayer Leverkusen 17 0 DEF Malick Thiaw AC Milan (ITA) 2 0 MID Robert Andrich Bayer Leverkusen 0 0 MID Julian Brandt Borussia Dortmund 44 3 MID Chris Fuhrich VfB Stuttgart 0 0 MID Leon Goretzka Bayern Munich 53 14 MID Pascal Gross Brighton (ENG) 2 0 MID Ilkay Gundogan Barcelona (SPA) 69 17 MID Jonas Hoffman Bayer Leverkusen 22 4 MID Joshua Kimmich Bayern Munich 80 6 MID Jamal Musiala Bayern Munich 23 1 MID Leroy Sane Bayern Munich 55 13 MID Florian Wirtz Bayer Leverkusen 10 0 FWD Kevin Behrens Union Berlin 0 0 FWD Niklas Fullkrug Borussia Dortmund 9 7 FWD Kai Havertz Arsenal (ENG) 39 13 FWD Thomas Muller Bayern Munich 123 45

Julian Nagelsmann tactics, style of play

Through his time at Bayern Munich, Julian Nagelsmann preferred a 4-2-3-1 formation with Joshua Kimmich and Leon Goretzka holding down the lynchpin central midfield spots.

However, as the 2022/23 season progressed and results weren't as easy to come by, Nagelsmann switched to a 3-2-4-1 formation. This allowed him to deploy the likes of Alphonso Davies and Kingsley Coman very high up the pitch to provide width, while letting Jamal Musiala and Thomas Muller cook centrally behind a striker.

That 3-2-4-1 formation is flexible horizontally, as it allows one full-back to push high up the pitch while the other slots in along the back line, and thus sees the two central No. 10 players alternate pushing wide or pinching in to compensate.

This tactical setup is becoming popular with top-tier coaches across Europe, and has been used at various stages by the likes of Pep Guardiola, Stefano Pioli, Mikel Arteta, Edin Terzic, and many others.

In either setup, the forward line will shift horizontally to allow a midfield player to drive into space, and given options once halted to either play into the crowded forward line or release a bombing full-back to the off side, both of which can stretch or confuse an opponent's defensive unit.

Having spent time in the Red Bull system, Nagelsmann also deploys a complicated press that, like Gregg Berhalter, starts with the lone central striker. The goal is to force the opponent to play the ball into overload traps out wide, or if the opponent plays centrally, a defensive midfielder would step up at the base of a diamond (with two midfielders on the sides and the striker at the top) which would overwhelm an opposition midfield trio.

How will Germany play under Julian Nagelsmann?

The question, now, is how all this will translate to the German national team.

Looking at Julian Nagelsmann's first squad of 26 players, the biggest question is which formation he will play. There are no natural right-backs on the roster, meaning he will either have to pidgeonhole a center-back (Antonio Rudiger or Niklas Sule) out wide, sacrifice Josh Kimmich's presence in midfield to move him back, or move Pascal Gross back. None of those are ideal options.

Whether Nagelsmann deploys a 4-2-3-1 or a 3-2-4-1, the tactical approach will likely remain the same.

Getting the best out of young superstar Jamal Musiala will be one of the most important aspects of Nagelsmann's tenure, as Musiala has blossomed into a world-class talent at Bayern Munich, but the 20-year-old has just one goal in 23 international caps to this point.

Nagelsmann will also look to introduce a few overlooked players, starting with Robert Andrich who could factor into the midfield setup as a traditional No. 6, especially as Ilkay Gundogan enters the twilight of his career. The new boss will also want to raise Kimmich's level of play back to old heights, as the ever-present Bayern star has seen his level drop in recent years for both club and country but remains a special talent.

Germany criticized for travel schedule vs USA, Mexico

The DFB has taken significant flak from the German press for their travel to North America to play the United States and Mexico.

There's likely some form of superiority complex involved, with those following the German national team surely miffed that a European giant is traveling across the globe to meet CONCACAF sides with far thinner World Cup resumes. However, a closer look at their travel schedule does invite some questions as to how they've made use of the international break.

Most notably, the Germany squad will return to Europe just a single day prior to Borussia Dortmund's first match out of the break, which sees BVB play Werder Bremen on Friday, October 20. Bayern Munich have their first game back against Mainz on Saturday, as does much of the Bundesliga.

"I don't know if I'd be interested in playing against Mexico in America before [the Euros hosted] in Germany," said Bayern Munich manager Thomas Tuchel prior to the international break. "I don't know if anyone can explain this in a way that I can understand. I don't know who decided it, but it has been decided.

"There is a difference between a busy schedule and everything away from home and in different time zones. This is at the end of the endurance. No coach in the world at this level will say otherwise."

"I don't understand the trip to the USA — for a variety of reasons," said former Germany international Lothar Matthaus to German outlet Bild back in the summer. "I would have tried to create a good atmosphere in Germany before the Euros. That's why I would be in all 10 European Championship stadiums for the friendly matches and would have shown myself there once as a DFB selection. That can create a mood. But what do we want in the US at this point?"