Even the Philadelphia Eagles and Dallas Cowboys – two of the NFL's best teams – have hot seats. No seats, however, may be more sizzling than those occupied by two head coaches in the NFC South, one in the NFC North and another (surprisingly) in the NFC West.

Here is the hottest seat on each NFC team as determined by Yardbarker NFL writers.

NFC East

DALLAS COWBOYS | Cornerback Trevon Diggs: In September, Diggs suffered a season-ending ACL injury. His replacement, DaRon Bland, has wowed us with an NFL-record five pick-sixes. There's no way Bland can go back to slot corner in 2024, so the heat will be on Diggs next season as a probable replacement for Stephon Gilmore at left cornerback.

NEW YORK GIANTS | Quarterback Daniel Jones: Out for the season with an ACL injury, Jones has no way to dissuade Giants ownership from taking a quarterback high in the QB-rich 2024 NFL Draft. New York can (and will) get out of his $160M contract in 2025.

PHILADELPHIA EAGLES | Wide receiver Quez Watkins: Philadelphia’s supposed No. 3 receiver has a measly four catches for 21 yards. While he missed five games with a hamstring injury, Olamide Zaccheaus and Julio Jones combined for 132 yards receiving and three touchdowns.

WASHINGTON COMMANDERS | Owner Josh Harris: He oversaw the controversial “Process” as owner of the Philadelphia 76ers. He’ll need a better plan this offseason when “I’m not Dan Snyder” stops working. At 4-8, the Commanders are floundering in his first season of ownership. — Bruce Ewing

NFC West

ARIZONA CARDINALS | Quarterback Kyler Murray: The inconsistent Murray has five more games this season to prove to a new front office and coaching staff that he is the long-term answer at quarterback. If he doesn’t show them what they want to see, the Cardinals have the draft capital (including two first-round picks) to land a franchise quarterback at the top of the QB-rich 2024 NFL Draft.

LOS ANGELES RAMS | Wide receiver Cooper Kupp: At his peak, he was one of the best offensive players in the league, but age (30) and injuries (appearing in 16 of a possible 28 games the past two seasons) have hurt his production. He has been a non-factor over the past five games (12 catches for 127 yards) while young receivers Puka Nacua and Tutu Atwell have stepped up.

SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS | Head coach Kyle Shanahan: The 49ers have done almost everything possible under Shanahan except win a Super Bowl. Fair or not, not winning a title with a stacked roster — especially on offense (Christian McCaffrey, Deebo Samuel, Brock Purdy, George Kittle) — would be a massive disappointment. His job is in zero danger, but his rep may be.

SEATTLE SEAHAWKS | Quarterback Geno Smith: The Seahawks passed on drafting a QB in 2023 and re-signed Smith, but he has taken a significant step back. Entering Thursday's game against Dallas, his completion percentage was down from 2022 (69.8 to 65.4 percent) despite the impressive offensive weapons around him. Seattle has an out in his contract after this season that would only carry a $17.4 million dead-cap number, per Spotrac. — Adam Gretz

NFC North

CHICAGO BEARS | Head coach Matt Eberflus: The Bears have only one division win during Eberflus' tenure and his seven wins are the fewest by a Bears head coach through his first 29 games. In his second season as HC, the defense has improved, but positive results are hard to come by behind a lackluster offense ranked 19th in yards (323.2) and 21st in points per game (20.2).

DETROIT LIONS | Defensive coordinator Aaron Glenn: The Lions finished near the bottom of the NFL in points against (31st and 28th) the past two seasons and are on pace to do so again for the third time in as many years under Glenn (24th, 23.5). Furthermore, the unit has regressed in 2023, with opponents averaging 29 points per game since Week 7 (five games).

GREEN BAY PACKERS | Wide receiver Christian Watson: The popular choice to emerge as the team's No. 1 wideout, he has underachieved in his second season, outshined by fellow 2022 draftee Romeo Doubs (seven TDs) and rookie Jayden Reed (five TDs). Watson had his best game in Week 12 (five receptions, 94 yards, one TD), but was nearly invisible before that, recording 16 catches (257 yards) and two TDs over seven games.

MINNESOTA VIKINGS | Running back Alexander Mattison: He has floundered in his first season as the starter, producing zero rushing TDs on a career-best 13.2 attempts a game and ranking 22nd among qualified backs in yards per carry (3.8). He's still getting more snaps than second-year RB Ty Chandler, but the Vikings will likely look for a replacement this offseason if Mattison doesn't show more. — Mike Santa Barbara

NFC South

ATLANTA FALCONS | Quarterback Desmond Ridder: The Falcons have a golden path toward a division crown, but Ridder’s two-interception performance against the Saints in Week 12 was another reminder Atlanta isn’t a legitimate contender with him. He’ll finish the season leading the Falcons, who will probably get a home playoff game, but the clock is ticking on Ridder’s time as an NFL starter.

CAROLINA PANTHERS | General manager Scott Fitterer: Owner David Tepper should have the hottest seat, but he isn’t going to fire himself. Instead, when he runs out of people on the sidelines to fire, he’ll take out his frustration on a GM (partly) responsible for constructing the least impressive roster in football.

NEW ORLEANS SAINTS | Head coach Dennis Allen: New Orleans' 5-6 record against the league’s easiest schedule is bad. What's worse, however, is running back Alvin Kamara’s concerning claim after a 24-15 loss to the Falcons that the team doesn’t have an identity. Allen — who has a 20-44 record as head coach of the Raiders and Saints — needs a playoff appearance or there could be big changes in New Orleans.

TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS | Head coach Todd Bowles: At 4-7, the Bucs are only a game back of first in the division, but they are fading fast, going 1-6 in their past seven games. The team’s lapses on defense (363.7 YPG/27th) – supposedly Bowles' area of expertise – are most concerning. — Eric Smithling