Without Lionel Messi, Inter Miami have looked exceedingly mortal. They put in a 90-minute performance littered with individual mistakes, and the Chicago Fire made them pay, winning 4-1 via braces from Xherdan Shaqiri and substitute Maren Haile-Selassie.

The result boosts Chicago’s postseason hopes significantly, moving them into a playoff position in the Eastern Conference standings.

Inter Miami’s playoff hopes, conversely, are now on life support, needing to win out in their final three games and get outside help. The club is winless in four games with Messi out injured, and it has seen their chances at a postseason berth nearly evaporate.

Shaqiri’s brace was the biggest talking point for the hosts, as the former Liverpool midfielder has not always been at his best since joining MLS, but in front of a record Chicago Fire crowd at Soldier Field, he rose to the occasion.

The Sporting News followed the Chicago Fire vs. Inter Miami match live, providing score updates, commentary and highlights as they happened.

Chicago Fire vs. Inter Miami final score

Score Goal scorers Chicago Fire 4 Shaqiri (50', 73'),

Haile-Selassie (62', 66') Inter Miami 1 J. Martinez (53')

Starting lineups:

Chicago Fire (4-2-3-1, right to left): 34. Brady (GK) — 24. Dean, 16. Omsberg, 5. Czichos, 6. Navarro — 26. Doumbia, 30. G. Gimenez — 17. B. Gutierrez (Haile-Selassie, 55'), 10. Shaqiri, 21. Herbers (Teran, 85') — 19. Koutsias (Przybylko, 69').

Inter Miami (4-3-3, right to left): 1. Callender (GK) — 2. Yedlin, 27. Kryvtsov, 31. Miller, 32. Allen — 3. Arroyo (J. Mota, 67'), 5. Busquets, 30. Cremaschi — 16. Taylor (Stefanelli, 67'), 17. Martinez, 11. Farias.

Chicago Fire vs. Inter Miami live updates, highlights, commentary

FULLTIME: Chicago Fire 4-1 Inter Miami

Xherdan Shaqiri has underwhelmed for much of the year, but on the biggest stage when the Chicago Fire needed him the most, he rose to the occasion with a brace in a big win.

Chicago are into a playoff position, while Inter Miami's playoff chances take a massive hit with the defeat. Lionel Messi's club no longer controls its own destiny, needing outside help to make the postseason.

Via @IanHest, #InterMiamiCF would be on the brink of playoff elimination if this result holds. pic.twitter.com/xqyyY5ifzP — Kyle Bonn (@the_bonnfire) October 5, 2023

Chicago Fire vs. Inter Miami: Second Half

90th min: Facundo Farias is booked for a hip check on Miguel Navarro, which might have been a retaliation foul for Navarro's jawing at Sergio Busquets.

Three minutes of added time are shown on the board.

83rd min: Referee Joe Dickerson has to step between Sergio Busquets and Miguel Navarro as the two are jawing at each other. It wasn't hard to read Navarro's lips as he walked away, and his words aren't repeatable here.

Frank Klopas withdraws Fabian Herbers and brings on an extra defender in Carlos Teran.

78th min: A crowd of 62,124 was announced for tonight's match, blowing out the old Chicago Fire record and setting a new club record at Soldier Field. They didn't get to see Lionel Messi play, but they got to see their home team put on a rousing performance!

73rd min: GOAL! CHICAGO FIRE! Xherdan Shaqiri has his second as he skewers Inter Miami to put the match away! It's given away in midfield by Facundo Farias, and Gaston Gimenez feeds Shaqiri through to begin the transitional play. Shaqiri, splitting two defenders, does it himself, cutting inside onto his left foot and then burying the shot inside the near post past a helpless Drake Callender.

This one's over, and Inter Miami's playoff chances are on life support!

Shaqiri brace ✔️



The @ChicagoFire are cruising in front of a packed house at @SoldierField. pic.twitter.com/nvBj5ZB4E3 — Major League Soccer (@MLS) October 5, 2023

68th min: Suddenly trailing by two goals, Gerardo Martino makes a pair of changes, bringing on Jean Mota and Nick Stefanelli for Dixon Arroyo and Robert Taylor.

66th min: GOAL! CHICAGO FIRE! The hosts take a commanding lead on another defensive calamity at the back for Inter Miami! The substitute Maren Haile-Selassie has his second, and it's all too easy for the Chicago Fire! A lateral cross from Fabian Herbers is inch-perfect to thread around both defenders, and Haile-Selassie slides in to finish.

Drake Callender gets a slight touch on the ball, but he can't keep it out.

Another one for Maren Haile-Selassie! 🔥



The second-half sub comes in and bags a brace to make it a 3-1 @ChicagoFire lead against Inter Miami. pic.twitter.com/bgHZHCOm7M — Major League Soccer (@MLS) October 5, 2023

62nd min: GOAL! CHICAGO FIRE! The substitute snatches back the lead, and Inter Miami are made to pay for their poor misses!

A sensational pass vertically from Fabian Herbers feeds through Maren Haile-Selassie, with Serhiy Kryvtsov completely failing to see the runner breeze by him. The finish is cool and the hosts are in front.

What a pass from Fabian Herbers to set up Maren Haile-Selassie! 🔥@ChicagoFire take the lead. pic.twitter.com/wBRejPuAOd — Major League Soccer (@MLS) October 5, 2023

61st min: Inter Miami are going for the jugular now. Robert Taylor's cheeky backheel gets the ball to Facundo Farias, but his shot is blocked. It's all sauce from the visitors right now, and Chicago are under siege.

59th min: Chance, Inter Miami! BENJA CREMASCHI PUTS A GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY WIDE! Moments after Facundo Farias misses, Josef Martinez again unlocks the Chicago Fire defense but with only the goalkeeper to beat, Cremaschi misses the target across the face of goal! He HAD to take the lead!

58th min: Chance, Inter Miami! Josef Martinez squares to Facundo Farias on the break, but the young Argentine misses wide left! That's a terrible miss with the goal gaping! The chance was there, as he was free on goal!

55th min: Chicago coach Frank Klopas makes the first substitution, withdrawing Brian Gutierrez and bringing on Maren Haile-Selassie. The broadcast reports that Gutierrez was pulled due to a sore knee.

52nd min: PENALTY, INTER MIAMI! Handball on Jonathan Dean who blocks a shot by Benja Cremaschi! He is lucky to only get a yellow card here, as he was prone on the ground and had his arms outstretched as he turned his back to the shot.

Josef Martinez steps up to the spot...GOAL! INTER MIAMI! The penalty is slammed into the back of the net, with Chris Brady going the wrong way as well! Chicago had their lead for just three minutes.

50th min: GOAL! CHICAGO FIRE! DeAndre Yedlin completely loses his runner at the back post, and Xherdan Shaqiri makes him pay! The U.S. international, up the field from the attack, had no clue that Shaqiri was making his run and dogged it back in transition.

SHAQIRI 🎶 SHAQIRI 🎶



What a sequence from the @ChicagoFire to set up the opening goal against Inter Miami. pic.twitter.com/Snix7YI1CK — Major League Soccer (@MLS) October 5, 2023

47th min: Robert Taylor gives a loud grunt audible on the broadcast and is holding his shoulder after taking a relatively innocuous touch off his chest. He looks to be ok after a few moments.

Kickoff: They're back under way at Soldier Field, but before kickoff Gerardo Martino gets a weird yellow card from the referee. He came straight out to the center circle to discuss things with the official, and it appeared that he was chastised for how late Inter Miami returned to the pitch from the locker room.

Chicago head coach Frank Klopas tells the Apple TV+ broadcast that he wants his team to be "more calm on the ball." He acknowledges that they've had their chances, but haven't taken them yet.

HALFTIME: Chicago Fire 0-0 Inter Miami

No score at the break. The Chicago Fire had the better chances, but neither side really took a firm hold of the match for an extended period of time.

"We have to play further forward, we played side to side too much," Inter Miami head coach Gerardo Martino told the Apple TV+ broadcast as he headed into the locker room. There's a lot riding on these next 45 minutes.

HT: Fairly dull first half for Miami.



Not too much going forward, too sideways.



Desperately need some combination play in the final third.



Expect some attacking changes in the second half. #InterMiamiCF — Alex Windley (@aaw_1998) October 5, 2023

Around the rest of the league, the New York Red Bulls have picked up a massive three points off Eastern Conference leaders FC Cincinnati with a 2-1 win, while CF Montreal grabbed a last-gasp equalizer against the Houston Dynamo, and Charlotte FC pummeled Toronto FC 3-0. Not exactly an ideal trio of results for others chasing a playoff spot.

Chicago Fire vs. Inter Miami: First Half

42nd min: Sergio Busquets picks up the first yellow card of the match for what can only be described as a football tackle on Brian Gutierrez near the center circle. Busquets has no argument there.

38th min: Chance, Chicago Fire! OFF THE INSIDE OF THE POST AND OUT! So close to an opener!

An exceptional run from Georgios Koutsias sees the Greek take a shot on goal which deflects off the foot of Serhiy Kryvtsov and slowly rolls towards the net. The deflection wrong-footed Drake Callender, but the ball agonizingly hits the inside of the woodwork and comes out, and Inter Miami clear.

35th min: The hosts have gained a foothold on this match, and have earned a few consecutive corners. Chicago screams for a penalty as the ball hits Serhiy Kryvtsov in the arm, but VAR does not intervene as his arm was down in a natural position. Four straight corners go begging.

29th min: Kamal Miller makes an exquisite block on Brian Gutierrez who appeared to be in, and had an eye for a shot to the far post. That was nearly a big chance for the hosts.

Kamal Miller has been exceptional so far tonight.#InterMiamiCF — Alex Windley (@aaw_1998) October 5, 2023

23rd min: Chance, Inter Miami! Noah Allen nearly produces the vertical ball of the century, slicing up the Fire defense to find DeAndre Yedlin streaking at the far post, and while the American international slides to keep the ball in play, which Chris Brady spills, Josef Martinez can't quite reach the loose ball before it's cleared. They were so close to slamming that home!

21st min: The Fire nearly create another chance, with two players combining down the left to beat DeAndre, but the cross to the feet of a leaping Fabian Herbers is put wide of the post. The German attempted a leaping karate kick but couldn't get the contact right.

15th min: Chance, Chicago Fire! HOW DID THE FIRE NOT SCORE?!? Drake Callender completely misreads the flight of a corner and undercuts the ball, but he recovers at the near post to keep out a shot, and then Benjamin Cremaschi gets a massive block on the follow up to see the ball pop up over the crossbar.

The hosts had the ball right on the goal mouth and couldn't capitalize!

#InterMiamiCF is having such trouble clearing their lines lately… — Ian Hest (@IanHest) October 5, 2023

14th min: Inter Miami look a bit cleaner in the attack now, and they have begun to trouble the Chicago attacking third. Facundo Farias nearly has a chance at the top of the penalty area, but he's dispossessed before he can pick out a pass or a shot. He had teammates streaking on goal.

11th min: Robert Taylor has Inter Miami's first shot on target of the match, which is a simple save for Chris Brady low and central.

Ted Lasso actor Brendan Hunt, a native of Chicago, is shown on the video board, which draws a hand from the crowd.

7th min: Chance, Chicago Fire! Gaston Gimenez fires over the crossbar! Great wrk by Fabian Herbers down the right sees the German cross to the middle where the Fire have two attackers against just one defender. Yet Brian Gutierrez can't control the delivery, and while it falls to Gimenez, he's under pressure by the time he gets a shot off, and it sizzles just inches over the woodwork.

5th min: This has been a sloppy start for both teams in midfield, with a lot of needless giveaways. Inter Miami have held most of the possession, but have struggled with bad turnovers. The Chicago Fire haven't yet been able to take advantage.

Kickoff: A huge game in the MLS playoff race is under way from Soldier Field! The NFL venue in the Windy City is sold out.

"Drop a photo that will create FOMO."



Admin: pic.twitter.com/PDqEVFTteJ — Chicago Fire FC (@ChicagoFire) October 5, 2023

Chicago Fire vs. Inter Miami: Pre-match commentary, analysis, stats, and more

10 mins to kickoff: With both these clubs looking to reach the playoffs, they will be keeping a close eye on other results around the Eastern Conference tonight. They're not going according to plan.

Charlotte FC, who sat 14th coming into tonight's match, lead Toronto FC 2-0, which for the moments jumps them above Inter Miami. Additionally, the New York Red Bulls are beating Eastern Conference leaders FC Cincinnati 2-0, a shocking result that has the Red Bulls, for the moment, jump above Chicago into 11th on 37 points.

This is our kind of party 🥳@Audi I #RBNY pic.twitter.com/252EosDLp2 — New York Red Bulls (@NewYorkRedBulls) October 5, 2023

25 mins to kickoff: While much of the focus has been on Inter Miami, the Chicago Fire are fighting for a playoff spot too. They sit 11th in the table, and could jump into a postseason position with a victory tonight. A draw could do the trick too if they get help from outside.

“These are the best games to play all the time,” Chicago Fire star Xherdan Shaqiri said Monday in his media availability. “As a player, you want these kinds of final games and to play for something. We put ourselves in this position, and we have a chance to do it, so now we have to perform.”

Also, Shaqiri confirmed he's Team Messi over Team Ronaldo.

Q: Messi or Ronaldo?



🗣️Xherdan Shaqiri (Chicago Fire): “I’m always a big Messi admirer, if I have to choose now I will go with Messi. He won the WC which was the only thing he missed. So for sure Messi.”#Messi #InterMiamiCF pic.twitter.com/Tv4rVXddrU — Inter Miami FC Hub (@Intermiamicfhub) October 3, 2023

35 mins to kickoff: Finally lineups have been released, and Lionel Messi is not part of the Inter Miami squad. Otherwise, it's a regular starting XI for Gerardo Martino, with Josef Martinez up front as Leonardo Campana is out with a knock.

For Chicago, Kei Kamara is on the bench, with Georgios Koutsias slotted in up front just as he was on the weekend. Mexican playmaker Jairo Torres sits, with Fabian Herbers deployed on the right wing.

Lionel Messi misses his fourth straight Inter Miami game due to injury 🤕 pic.twitter.com/W1DRc9NJNo — B/R Football (@brfootball) October 4, 2023

45 mins to kickoff: Lineups are now exceedingly late, but while we wait, a nod to Chicago Fire striker Kei Kamara, who could tie Landon Donovan on the all-time Major League Soccer scoring list tonight with a goal. Kamara's 144 goals are just one behind the former USMNT great, while Chris Wondolowski's 171 goals leads the league's career chart.

Will @keikamara tie Landon Donovan tonight for second on the all-time scoring list? 🤔 pic.twitter.com/Svq79fvbBG — Major League Soccer (@MLS) October 4, 2023

1 hour to kickoff: With lineups not yet released, there is finally a report regarding Lionel Messi's availability. According to Michelle Kaufman of the Miami Herald, Messi "did not arrive with the team" to Soldier Field. While that's not outright confirmation that he will not take part in the match, it's a very strong indication that he will not be involved tonight.

1 hour 15 mins to kick: With lineups due imminently, and nothing to indicate if Lionel Messi is involved tonight or not, the Chicago Fire media team has jokes.

We have the 🐐 in the building pic.twitter.com/aPt7b0waFq — Chicago Fire FC (@ChicagoFire) October 4, 2023

1 hour 30 mins to kick: A lot of teams have indicated that their preparation for Inter Miami varies wildly depending on whether Lionel Messi will play, but Chicago Fire midfielder Xherdan Shaqiri played his own cards close to his chest when asked if they are waiting for news on Messi's availability.

"The preparation is not going to change, we're going to prepare as normal as always," Shaqiri said in his pre-match availability Monday. "Everybody is excited to play against Inter Miami. If Messi is injured or not, personally I am not thinking too much about this. Of course Inter Miami is a different team when Messi is playing or not playing, you see that in the last games when Messi is in the team they are better, but we prepare like normal for every game."

Xherdan Shaqiri: “For me it’s clear, Messi and Ronaldo are the best players in the world… these guys are among the best athletes in the history of sport, along with Michael Jordan and Tom Brady.”#cf97 #vamosfire pic.twitter.com/puTvUqC0a1 — Alex Calabrese (@amcalabrese12) October 2, 2023

1 hour 45 mins to kick: The status of Lionel Messi is unclear, but Chicago is still feeling Messi fever!

Hi from Chicago! Not sure if Messi is here (my hunch is no), but I am here to cover the Inter Miami v Fire game, and the Messi shirt 👚 ⚽️ vendors are here, too! @MiamiHerald @HeraldSports @InterMiamiCF #InterMiamiCF #Messi𓃵 #cf97 #MLS pic.twitter.com/hp8KHzkwNB — Michelle Kaufman (@kaufsports) October 4, 2023

2 hours to kickoff: Tata Martino has played his cards extremely close to his chest when it comes to the fitness of Lionel Messi. Each week we see how tight-lipped the Inter Miami boss has been regarding Messi's injury.

Prior to tonight's match against the Chicago Fire, Martino was asked about the return of Jordi Alba, and he stated that there is a timeline in place for Alba's return. When asked if there's a timeline for Messi's return, Martino refused to acknowledge if there is.

Tata Martino when I asked about Lionel Messi's return timeline:



"I understand your desire to know the exact timelines, but if I had the exact timelines I would share them.



"I just don't have them."



🤔🧐🤨#InterMiamiCF #Messi𓃵 pic.twitter.com/U7doZYX491 — Franco Panizo (@FrancoPanizo) October 4, 2023

Chicago Fire vs. Inter Miami lineups & team news

Frank Klopas has rotated his two young attackers, Brian Gutierrez and Jairo Torres along with famed Swiss international Xherdan Shaqiri in the attack. He has also done his best to keep his striker stop rolling along with Kei Kamara and Georgios Koutsias alternating up front and MLS veteran Kacper Przybylko coming off the bench.

Injuries to defenders Mauricio Pineda and Miguel Navarro, plus striker Victor Bezerra, will keep them out for today's match, while Chris Mueller is done for the year with a hip problem.

Chicago Fire starting lineup (4-2-3-1): Brady (GK) — Dean, Omsberg, Teran, Navarro — Doumbia, G. Gimenez — B. Gutierrez, Shaqiri, J. Torres — Kamara.

Chicago Fire subs (9): Richey (GK), Teran, Haile-Selassie, Casas Jr, Aceves, Burks, Souquet, Przybylko, Kamara.

The status of Lionel Messi is uncertain, but it feels unlikely that he will be involved given recent matches. He could, however, be more ready for action over the weekend when Inter Miami face FC Cincinnati.

Inter Miami will definitely be without the services of both Jordi Alba and Leonardo Campana who are both out with muscle injuries. Midfielder Gregore has returned to training after months on the sideline with a foot injury, and could be involved in the coming matches as he ramps up his fitness.

Tomas Aviles is suspended for yellow card accumulation, while Ian Fray and Corentin Jean are both out for the season with ACL injuries.

Inter Miami starting lineup (4-3-3): Callender (GK) — Yedlin, Kryvtsov, Miller, Allen — Arroyo, Busquets, Cremaschi — Farias, Martinez, Taylor.

Inter Miami subs (9): Dos Santos (GK), McVey, Sailor, Ulloa, J. Mota, D. Ruiz, Sunderland, Stefanelli.

How to watch Chicago Fire vs. Inter Miami

Date: Wednesday, Oct. 4, 2023

Wednesday, Oct. 4, 2023 Time: 8:30 p.m. ET / 5:30 p.m. PT

8:30 p.m. ET / 5:30 p.m. PT TV Channel: — None —

— None — Streaming: Apple TV+ (MLS Season Pass)

Chicago Fire vs. Inter Miami betting odds & lines

Inter Miami have been mired in a slump without Lionel Messi, and with the Argentine likely to miss out again today, the Herons are heavy underdogs on the road at Chicago.

Goals are expected in this match as both sides have conceded in bunches for the most part this year.