Shohei Ohtani and Juan Soto have already found new homes, but much of the MLB offseason has yet to play out.

Japanese pitcher Yoshinobu Yamamoto is the focus of many teams as he prepares to sign a massive deal, while Blake Snell, Cody Bellinger and Jordan Montgomery remain on the market. The trade market is also expected to be active once more dominoes fall, with Dylan Cease, Corbin Burnes and Tyler Glasnow among starters who could be moved this winter.

The Winter Meetings are over, but because of the timeline of major decisions by Ohtani and Yamamoto, there could be a flurry of activity leading up to the end of the year.

MORE: Why Shohei Ohtani signed with Dodgers over Blue Jays, other suitors

Sporting News is tracking the rumors, signings and trades as MLB free agency continues. Follow along below for the latest news.

MLB free agency tracker, live updates

Padres ink five-year deal with NPB star Matsui

Date: Saturday, Dec. 23

Source: ESPN's Jeff Passan

Another Japanese star is headed to the Sunshine State. Star reliever Yuki Matsui inked a five-year, $28 million deal to join the Friars on Saturday. Matsui was one of NPB's best arms out the pen, starring for Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles for nearly a decade. He tallied up 236 saves over the course of his career, posting a 2.40 ERA in 659.2 innings of work. The contract features opt-out clauses in Years 4 and 5, offering San Diego an out if Matsui deals with elbow trouble.

Dodgers sign Yamamoto to $325 million contract

Date: Tuesday, Dec. 19

Source: ESPN's Jeff Passan, YES Network's Jack Curry

The Yamamoto sweepstakes are over, as the Dodgers have reportedly signed the Japanese ace to a 12-year, $325 million. It's the largest MLB deal for a pitcher, surpassing Gerrit Cole's deal with the Yankees by $1 million. Los Angeles' incredible offseason continues, as Yamamoto joins Shohei Ohtani on the defending NL West champs.

Giants out of Yamamoto sweepstakes

Date: Thursday, Dec. 21

Source: Alex Pavlovic, NBC Sports Bay Area

The Giants made a hard push to land Yamamoto, but according to NBC Sports Bay Area's Alex Pavlovic, San Francisco has been notified that the team is out of the bidding to land the Japanese ace. Pavlovic added that it is very likely that Yamamoto ends up either in Los Angeles with the Dodgers, or New York with the Mets or Yankees.

Yamamoto met with Giants, won't decide on team until after Christmas

Date: Tuesday, Dec. 19

Source: Andrew Baggarly, The Athletic and Bob Klapisch, Newark Star-Ledger

San Francisco has been among the teams most heavily believed to be in on Yamamoto, and according to The Athletic's Andrew Baggarly, the team met with him in San Francisco last week. Baggarly reported the Giants have been willing to "blow teams out of the water" to land Yamamoto, but noted he believes the crowded picture for the Japanese ace could make it more challenging for the Giants to be the winner of the Yamamoto sweepstakes.

And fans will have to wait a bit longer before hearing a final resolution on his decision. The Newark Star-Ledger's Bob Klapisch reported Yamamoto isn't expected to make a decision until after Christmas, and that it could run until around Jan. 1-4.

Pirates re-sign franchise legend Andrew McCutchen

Date: Tuesday, Dec. 19

Source: Jason Mackey, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

The Pirates have been making a few veteran free-agent signings to bolster the rotation. Now, they're bringing back a franchise icon. Pittsburgh has reportedly inked Andrew McCutchen to a one-year, $5 million.

McCutchen enjoyed a solid return to Pittsburgh in 2023, slashing .256/.378/.397 with 12 home runs in 112 games. It was his first season in Pittsburgh since 2017.

Angels discussing Blake Snell

Date: Tuesday, Dec. 19

Source: Jon Morosi, MLB Network

The Angels came up empty on bringing back Ohtani. Now, they're looking to land another splashy name on the free-agent market. MLB Network's Jon Morosi reported Los Angeles has had discussions with two-time Cy Young winner Blake Snell.

Per Morosi, the Angels are not believed to be a strong contender for Yamamoto, thus allowing them to put more of an effort on landing Snell rather than waiting for Yamamoto to make a decision.

Cody Bellinger looking for package starting at $200 million

Date: Tuesday, Dec. 18

Source: Jesse Rogers, ESPN

With Ohtani signed to Los Angeles, Bellinger remains the top free-agent bat on the market. And he is clearly looking for a top-of-the-market contract. Rogers reported sources indicate Bellinger's agent, Scott Boras, is seeking a deal worth well over $200 million for Bellinger, with one source saying he is "not budging."

Rogers went on to note that some believe the Cubs won't be a team willing to pay a player that type of money until he's 40 years old, while a team like the Blue Jays might given their desperation to round out the roster.

Padres closing in on contract for Yuki Matsui

Date: Tuesday, Dec. 18

Source: Yuki Yamada, Sankei Sports

The Padres are nearing a deal for one of the top Japanese pitchers on the market. Per Sankei Sports' Yuki Yamada, the Padres are "close to signing" Rakuten Golden Eagles' reliever Yuki Matsui to a deal. In 10 years in Nippon Professional Baseball, Matsui has a 2.40 ERA across 659.2 innings of work. In 2023, he posted a 1.57 ERA in 57.1 innings and racked up 39 saves for the Golden Eagles.

Giants ink catcher Tom Murphy to two-year contract

Date: Monday, Dec. 18

Source: Ken Rosenthal, The Athletic

The Giants are adding some catching depth. The Athletic's Ken Rosenthal reported San Francisco has agreed to a two-year, $8 million contract with the Giants. Murphy appeared in only 47 games for the Mariners in 2023, but had a standout year at the plate, slashing .290/.335/.538 with eight home runs. He joins a catching room that also features breakout 2023 rookie Patrick Bailey and Joey Bart. Bart is out of minor-league options, and could be on the outside-looking-in to a 2024 Opening Day roster spot if the Giants decide to have only two catchers on the active roster.

Pirates add to rotation, sign Martin Perez

Date: Monday, Dec. 18

Source: Jason Mackey, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

Pittsburgh continues to add to its rotation this offseason. The Pirates have reportedly agreed to a one-year, $8 million deal with former Ranger starter Martin Perez. He was used as a swing man in 2023, making 20 starts and 35 total appearances, pitching to a 4.45 ERA with 93 strikeouts and 49 walks in 141.2 innings en route to winning a WorldSeries ring. The Pirates also added another left-hander who pitched in 2023 for an AL West team in Marco Gonzales, though he had an offseason stop in Atlanta in the middle.

Bidding for Yamamoto begins Monday

Date: Monday, Dec. 18

Source: Jeff Passan, ESPN

There has been plenty of speculation about offers sent over to Yamamoto to this point, but Passan reports he has yet to receiver any formal offers. However, that will start to change on Monday, with the bidding slated to begin.

Braves cut Matt Carpenter after trying to trade him

Date: Monday, Dec. 18

Source: Robert Murray, FanSided

Atlanta reportedly was hoping to trade Matt Carpenter after acquiring him in a deal earlier this offseason from the Padres. The team acquired him and took on $4 million along with trading for Ray Kerr, but was looking to deal away his contract to someone else, according to The Athletic's Ken Rosenthal.

Twins could trade Max Kepler, Jorge Polance

Date: Sunday, Dec. 17

Source: Jon Morosi, MLB Network

The Twins are coming off an AL Central title, but could be looking to deal away two of their key players form the team. Max Kepler and Jorge Polanco could both reportedly be on the trade market, per MLB Network's Jon Morosi, though their market could hinge on the status of other infield free agents.

Kepler appeared in 130 games for the Twins, and posted an impressive .260/.332/.484 slash line with 24 homers for Minnesota. Polanco was moved to an infield utility role with Edouard Julien and Royce Lewis emerging into regulars, but was still solid in 80 games, logging a .255/.335/.454 slash with 14 homers.

Yamamoto requests meeting with Yankees

Date: Sunday, Dec. 17

Source: Jon Heyman, New York Post

Yamamoto has been making the rounds with MLB teams, and per Heyman, he reportedly asked to meet with the Yankees for a second time. The meeting with New York comes a day after he met with the Mets at team owner Steve Cohen's Connecticut home.

Lourdes Gurriel Jr. re-signs with Diamondbacks

Date: Sunday, Dec. 17

Source: Ken Rosenthal, The Athletic and ESPN's Jeff Passan

The Diamondbacks acquired Lourdes Gurriel Jr. last offseason in a trade involving Daulton Varsho and Gabriel Moreno. And after helping Arizona get to the World Series, Gurriel is ready to come back to Arizona. The Athletic's Ken Rosenthal reported Gurriel has re-signed a contract with the Diamondbacks.

According to ESPN's Jeff Passan, the deal is for $42 million over three years with a club option for a fourth year and an opt out after his second season with the club.

Yamamoto dines with Mets owner

Date: Sunday, Dec. 17

Source: Joel Sherman, New York Post

The Mets continued their strong push for the top free agent available, Yoshinobu Yamamoto, by hosting the Japanese pitcher for dinner Saturday night at team owner Steve Cohen's Connecticut home. Cohen and other top Mets officials previously flew to Japan to meet with Yamamoto on his home turf, so this is at least the second time the key players have met face-to-face.

Sherman reports the bidding process for the 25-year-old "is supposed to intensify this week," with the Yankees, Dodgers, Giants, Red Sox, Phillies and Blue Jays also in the mix.

Royals sign pair of veterans

Date: Friday, Dec. 15

Source: MLB.com's Anne Rogers

The Royals continue to splurge in the offseason. Per MLB.com's Anne Rogers, Kansas City signed outfielder Hunter Renfroe to a one-year, $5.5 million deal with a player option for 2025 worth $7.5 million, as well as right-hander Michael Wacha to a two-year, $32 million deal with an opt-out after 2024.

The moves are the latest for the Royals, who already signed Seth Lugo, Will Smith and Garrett Hampson this offseason. The total commitments are now up to $82 million.

Tyler Glansow inks extension with Dodgers

Date: Friday, Dec. 15

Source: ESPN's Jeff Passan

The only question mark left in the Glasnow trade was the figures on the extension he'd wind up signing with the Dodgers. Now, the numbers are in, and the deal is set to be completed.

Per Passan, Glasnow will be signing a five-year, $135 million deal with the Dodgers. Passan reported the deal begins in 2024, and could reach up to $145 million if the Dodgers pick up a $30 million option at the end of the contract. He also reported that unlike Ohtani's deal, there will be no deferred money.

Tyler Glasnow traded to Dodgers from Rays

Date: Thursday, Dec. 14

Source: ESPN's Jeff Passan

As had been reported for a few days, the deal between the Dodgers and Rays for Tyler Glasnow is coming to fruition. Los Angeles has reportedly acquired the right-handed starting pitcher, along with outfielder Manuel Margot, for RHP Ryan Pepiot and OF Jonny Deluca.

Glasnow is expected to sign a contract extension with the Dodgers as a result of the trade. The 30-year-old is in the final year of a two-year deal he sinked with the Rays in 2023, and was set to be free agent in 2025.

Jack Flaherty signs with Tigers

Date: Thursday, Dec. 14

Source:ESPN's Jeff Passan

Jack Flaherty has a new home. The right hander is signing a one-year, $14 million deal with the Tigers, according to Passan.

After undergoing shoulder surgery in 2022, Flaherty was traded from the Cardinals to the Orioles last year at the 2023 deadline. In total, he made 27 starts last year, posting a 4.99 ERA with 148 strikeouts in 144.1 innings.

Yoshinobu Yamamoto meets with Phillies

Date: Thursday, Dec. 14

Source: Jon Heyman, New York Post

The Phillies have not been one of the more frequent names connected to Yamamoto, however the Japanese free agent reportedly met with the team. The starting pitcher has met with a number of teams, including the Dodgers, Mets, Yankees and Red Sox.

Philadelphia re-signed ace Aaron Nola this offseason, bringing back the powerful duo of Nola and Zack Wheeler. Adding Yamamoto would immediately give the Phillies' one of the best rotations in baseball.

Cubs, Blue Jays the favorites for Cody Bellinger

Date: Wednesday, Dec. 13

Source: Jon Heyman, New York Post

The Blue Jays and Cubs were believed to be among the favorites to land Ohtani. But with the star two-way talent off to Los Angeles, the two are now believed to be the favorites to land Cody Bellinger, according to Heyman.

Bellinger would be returning to the Cubs, the team with which he rebuilt his value after a down year with the Dodgers. If he signed with the Blue Jays, he'd be bringing the powerful left-handed bat the team sought when it pursued Ohtani.

Dodgers send stars to meet with Yamamoto

Date: Wednesday, Dec. 13

Source: Fabian Ardaya, The Athletic

The Dodgers added one Japanese star this offseason. They're now looking to add another. Los Angeles reportedly sent Ohtani, Mookie Betts, Freddie Freeman and Will Smith to meet with Yamamoto, trying to convince the standout starting pitcher to join the National League superpower.

Signing Yamamoto would be a major boost for the Dodgers, who still have a need at starting pitcher.

Rays-Dodgers working on a Tyler Glasnow trade

Date: Wednesday, Dec. 13

Source: Ken Rosenthal, The Athletic

The Rays and Dodgers are reportedly working on a trade that would send starting pitcher Tyler Glasnow to L.A. Rosenthal reports that the proposed deal would also include OF Manny Margot going to the Dodgers, while the Rays would receive RHP Ryan Pepiot and OF Jonny Deluca.

Rosenthal clarified that the deal is not complete and changes are possible, but the base of the deal is Glasnow to the Dodgers.

Rowdy Tellez inks one-year deal with Pirates

Date: Tuesday, Dec. 12

Source: Robert Murray, FanSided

The Pirates have agreed to a one-year, $3.2 million contract with Rowdy Tellez. The deal includes an additional $800,000 in incentives.

Tellez hit 35 home runs as a centerpiece of the Brewers' lineup in 2022, but he took a significant step back in 2023 after starting the season on a roll. Between first base and the DH role, however, the Pirates figure to give Tellez near-everyday playing time in hopes his power bat finds its form.

Giants, Jung-Hoo Lee agree to six-year deal

Date: Tuesday, Dec. 12

Source: Jon Heyman, New York Post

The Giants have struggled to land big-name free agents over the last two offseasons, but they reeled in a pretty significant fish on Tuesday by inking Korean outfielder Jung-Hoo Lee to a six-year, $113M contract. Lee can opt out after 2027.

Lee is just 25 and was an on-base machine in Korea, batting .340 in his KBO career. While his power was inconsistent between seasons, Lee was a sought-after bat in free agency and drew heavy interest from the Padres as well.

Dodgers meeting with Yamamoto on Tuesday

Date: Tuesday, Dec. 12

Source: Russell Dorsey, Bally Sports

Bally Sports' Russell Dorsey reports the Dodgers met with Yoshinobu Yamamoto on Tuesday, extending Yamamoto's free agent four.

Yamamoto has already met with four teams and still plans to meet with the Red Sox and Blue Jays in the coming days.

Royals finalizing deal with SP Seth Lugo

Date: Tuesday, Dec. 12

Source: Anne Rogers, MLB.com

The Royals and starter Seth Lugo are finalizing a 3-year, $45 million contract, according to MLB.com's Anne Rogers.

The Padres stretched Lugo back into a full-time starter in 2023, and the 34-year-old posted a 3.57 ERA across 146.1 innings. Kansas City can use plenty of rotation help after a dismal 2023 season, so Lugo figures to be one of the Royals' top arms in 2024 and perhaps beyond.

Yamamoto to meet with Red Sox, Blue Jays

Date: Tuesday, Dec. 12

Source: Mark Feinsand, MLB.com

MLB.com's Mark Feinsand reports Japanese ace Yoshinobu Yamamoto will meet with both the Red Sox and Blue Jays in the coming days.

Yamamoto has already met with the Mets, Giants and Yankees, with the Dodgers also believed to be involved in the bidding. With both meetings still upcoming, the report is an indication the Yamamoto sweepstakes aren't on the verge of a conclusion.

MORE: Ranking the best fits for Japanese star Yoshinobu Yamamoto

Dodgers formally announce Ohtani signing

Date: Monday, Dec. 11

Source: Los Angeles Dodgers

The Dodgers have officially announced their signing of Ohtani, calling him a "once-in-a-generation talent and one of the most exciting professional athletes in the world."

"Dodger fans, thank you for welcoming me to your team. I can say 100 percent that you, the Dodger organization and I share the same goal - to bring World Series parades to the streets of Los Angeles," Ohtani said in a statement.

The Los Angeles Dodgers have signed two-time American League Most Valuable Player Shohei Ohtani to a 10-year contract. pic.twitter.com/mggYwgp01i — Los Angeles Dodgers (@Dodgers) December 12, 2023

Ohtani to defer $680 million of $700 million Dodgers deal

Date: Monday, Dec. 11

Source: Fabian Ardaya, The Athletic

According to The Athletic, Ohtani will defer a whopping $680 million of his $700 million contract from the Dodgers, receiving only $2 million per year.

While it's important to note the deal will still count as $46 million annually toward the luxury tax thresholds for Los Angeles, Ohtani is still giving the organization much more flexibility than expected over the course of the deal.

The two-time MVP will receive $68 million per year, without interest, from 2034-43, making the present-day value of the contract much less than it originally appeared.

MORE: Complete breakdown of Shohei Ohtani's Dodgers contract, by the minute

Giants reportedly meet with Yamamoto

Date: Monday, Dec. 11

Source: Buster Olney, ESPN

ESPN's Buster Olney reports the Giants met with Japanese ace Yoshinobu Yamamoto on Sunday, Dec. 10.

Yamamoto is the biggest fish on the free-agent market right now, and he's being pursued by a handful of big-market teams including the Yankees and Dodgers. The Giants have missed out on some of the most prominent free agents over the last two offseasons, so there might be incentive to make Yamamoto a massive offer to try and stay relevant in the NL West after the Dodgers' Ohtani signing.

MORE: What to know about Japanese ace Yoshinobu Yamamoto as he moves to MLB

Royals agree to 1-year deal with reliever Will Smith

Date: Sunday, Dec. 10

Source: Jeff Passan, ESPN

The Royals have agreed to a 1-year, $5 million contract with reliever Will Smith, who spent this past season with the Rangers.

Smith has won the World Series in each of the last three seasons, but Kansas City's expectations in 2024 don't quite extend to a championship. Instead, the Royals will hope the veteran Smith, who had solid underlying numbers in 2023, can serve as a reliable late-inning arm after both Scott Barlow and Aroldis Chapman were traded before the deadline this past season.

Shohei Ohtani agrees to mega contract with Dodgers

Date: Saturday, Dec. 9

Source: Shohei Ohtani, Jeff Passan

Two-time MVP Shohei Ohtani announced on Instagram that he is signing with the Los Angeles Dodgers, spurning the Blue Jays and remaining in the city where he became a sensation with the Angels.

ESPN's Jeff Passan reports Ohtani has agreed to a colossal 10-year, $700 million contract shattering the MLB record for both total value and average annual value.

Ohtani joins a Dodgers lineup that already features two former MVPs in Mookie Betts and Freddie Freeman, both of whom were NL MVP finalists in 2023. While he won't pitch again until 2025, Ohtani's power and on-base ability gives Los Angeles the most dangerous trio of hitters in the sport.

MORE: How Dodgers' 2024 payroll looks after handing out monster deal to Shohei Ohtani

Red Sox swing deal for Cardinals' Tyler O'Neill

Date: Friday, Dec. 8

Source: Jon Heyman, New York Post

Days after trading Alex Verdugo to the Yankees, the Red Sox have acquired OF Tyler O'Neill from the Cardinals in a deal that sends pitching prospects Nick Robertson and Victor Santos to St. Louis.

O'Neill enjoyed a breakthrough 2021 season with the Cardinals, batting .286 with 34 home runs and a .912 OPS, but he's struggled to recapture that level of production over the last two seasons and is set to be a free agent after 2024.