The honeymoon period is over for Joshua Dobbs in Minnesota.

The folk hero quarterback threw four interceptions in the Vikings' 12-10 "Monday Night Football" loss to the Bears, leading a sluggish offense that didn't find its footing until the fourth quarter in a game that Minnesota wouldn't have needed many points to win.

The Bears' defense swarmed Dobbs throughout the night, sacking him only twice but bringing a great deal of pressure as the defensive backs made plays. Despite the barrage of turnovers, Chicago largely failed to take advantage. The Bears scored only three points off of the four Dobbs interceptions.

MORE: How Joshua Dobbs got his 'Passtronaut' nickname

Meanwhile, Chicago's first turnover of the night — a deflating fumble by Fields when the Bears had a chance to extend their lead to two possessions — was quickly turned into a touchdown by the Vikings. It looked like that score might be the difference, particularly after Fields fumbled away the ball again on the next possession, but the Bears' defense put the ball back in his hands in the final minutes. Fields delivered.

Facing 3rd & 10 outside of field goal range, Fields hit an open D.J. Moore for a 36-yard gain. At that point, all the Bears needed to do was kneel and put Cairo Santos in position to win the game. Santos drilled the 30-yard attempt with 10 seconds remaining, and that would seal it for Chicago.

MORE: Vikings playoff chances after loss to Bears

As he embarks on a crucial stretch that could determine his future with the Bears, Fields flashed the good and the bad. He was excellent on Chicago's opening drive, albeit one that ended without points, but missed throws and costly turnovers allowed the Vikings to hang around. When it mattered most, though, Fields was poised and sealed the Bears' first win over an NFC North opponent since 2021.

While Chicago's hopes are still extraordinarily distant at 4-8, the Vikings saw their playoff chances take a hit on Monday night. Minnesota (6-6) dropped to the No. 7 seed in the NFC with the loss, with the Packers, Rams and Saints all just a half-game behind in the wild-card race. While a win would have put the Vikings in position to compete for the division crown down the stretch, just holding onto a playoff spot will now be a battle for Kevin O'Connell's squad.

MORE: Latest updates on Justin Jefferson's return date

The Sporting News tracked live updates from the "Monday Night Football" game between the Bears and Vikings. Check out all of the key moments you might have missed.

Bears vs. Vikings final score

1 2 3 4 F Bears 0 3 3 6 12 Vikings 0 3 0 7 10

Bears vs. Vikings results, highlights from 'Monday Night Football'

(All times Eastern)

Final: Bears 12, Vikings 10

11:07 p.m. — This game is OVER. The Bears don't score a touchdown and barely take advantage of the Vikings' four turnovers, but they walk out of Minnesota a winner as the Vikings fall back to .500.

Bears 12, Vikings 10

11:04 p.m. FIELD GOAL — The Bears are back in front! Santos drills it, and the Vikings have 10 seconds to work a miracle.

11:03 p.m. — The Vikings are using their two timeouts, but there isn't much they'll be able to do once this hits fourth down. Once the Bears kneel it on third down, Santos will be running out for what should be an automatic field goal.

11:01 p.m. — Fields hits Moore for 36 yards! That puts the Bears well into field goal range, and it's exactly what Chicago got Moore to do.

11:00 p.m. — A pair of incompletions set up a crucial 3rd & 10 for the Bears. They're not in field goal range at the Vikings' 49.

10:58 p.m. — Fields picks up a first down with his legs to take the Bears just over midfield. Chicago doesn't have timeouts, but there are still 85 seconds on the clock.

10:55 p.m. — Fields hits Moore for a 16-yard gain on the first play of the drive, gathering some momentum for the Bears ahead of the two-minute warning. Chicago has plenty of time to sneak into field goal range.

10:52 p.m. — Now it's the Vikings' turn to throw behind the line of scrimmage, which means it's the Vikings' turn to lose yardage. Minnesota passes on a long field goal attempt and instead will punt it away with 2:36 remaining and the lead just a point.

10:49 p.m. FUMBLE — Fields loses the ball AGAIN. Josh Metellus knocks it out for the second time, and this time Anthony Barr recovers. This has been an ugly, ugly sequence for the Bears.

10:47 p.m. — Fields throws behind the line of scrimmage to Mooney, and Mooney is predictably dropped for a four-yard loss. That play call has not worked for the Bears in this half.

Vikings 10, Bears 9

10:43 p.m. TOUCHDOWN — The Vikings turn the Fields fumble into the first touchdown of the night! Hockenson goes up and gets Dobbs' pass for the score. The Vikings lead, 10-9.

The first TD of the game is a Dobbs dot to Hockenson!



📺: #CHIvsMIN on ESPN/ABC

📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/J5tLNJHyh1 pic.twitter.com/b1IiFoqcqo — NFL (@NFL) November 28, 2023

10:41 p.m. — Dobbs hits Hockenson and pushes the Vikings into the red zone. Minnesota is driving. No one has scored a touchdown yet tonight.

10:40 p.m. — Addison's catch stands, and an Alexander Mattison run has the Vikings at the edge of field goal range. They want more than three points, but it's early enough that they absolutely could settle for a field goal if it got to that point.

10:37 p.m. — Matt Eberflus throws the challenge flag on a nice grab by Addison to give the Vikings a first down. This one looks like it will be tough to overturn...

10:34 p.m. — Wow, Jordan Addison would've had a walk-in touchdown, but Dobbs' throw takes him out of bounds. Addison couldn't have been more wide open.

10:33 p.m. — Brandon Powell has been the Vikings' biggest playmaker at two key points tonight. He goes 18 yards here to put Minnesota near midfield.

10:29 p.m. FUMBLE — That's exactly what CAN'T happen if you're the Bears. Fields loses the football, Sheldon Day recovers, and the Bears waste an opportunity to make this a two-score game.

Josh Metellus forces a fumble and the Vikings take over 😤



📺: #CHIvsMIN on ESPN/ABC

📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/J5tLNJHyh1 pic.twitter.com/fKnE0eTxsP — NFL (@NFL) November 28, 2023

10:27 p.m. — Fields finds Mooney for a big third down conversion as the Bears get firmly into field goal range.

10:25 p.m. INTERCEPTION — Josh Dobbs throws his FOURTH interception of the night. Justin Jones nearly had it, but it was Kyler Gordon who came away with it. Everything the Vikings have done on the offensive side of the ball tonight looks like a chore.

10:24 p.m. — A third down catch by Jordan Addison extends the drive for Minnesota. Addison only has 25 yards tonight.

10:23 p.m. — Ty Chandler gets the ball on second down and gets nothing. Chandler has not looked very effective tonight with 11 yards on five touches.

Bears 9, Vikings 3

10:18 p.m. FIELD GOAL — After Santos missed from 48 earlier, he drills it from 55. It's 9-3, Cubs Bears.

10:16 p.m. — Byron Murphy comes in to break up a third down pass by Fields, and Santos will come out for a long 55-yard field. He's already missed from 48 tonight.

End of third quarter: Bears 6, Vikings 3

10:14 p.m. — The Bears are starting to look respectable on third down again, this time completing to D.J. Moore to move deeper into Vikings territory. Chicago still might need another first down to give Cairo Santos a fair shot at a field goal.

10:08 p.m. INTERCEPTION — Dobbs throws his third interception of the night! Jaylon Johnson deflected it, Edwards caught it, and interestingly, the Bears have less favorable field position than they would've if it had fallen incomplete.

And Edwards follows it up with the Bears 3rd INT of the game ‼️



📺: #CHIvsMIN on ESPN/ABC

📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/J5tLNJHyh1 pic.twitter.com/2d4C1s2O09 — NFL (@NFL) November 28, 2023

10:06 p.m. — After a hold by Jaylon Johnson gifts the Vikings a first down, they still can't capitalize. Ty Chandler can't make T.J. Edwards miss on third down, so Minnesota will go for it on fourth down.

10:02 p.m. — The running game is working, the passing game is not for the Vikings. Mattison has 19 yards three plays into this drive for Minnesota.

Bears 6, Vikings 3

9:58 p.m. FIELD GOAL — A questionable play call on third down as Fields throws behind the line of scrimmage to Moore, who gets nothing. Cairo Santos is able to extend the Bears' lead with a field goal, though.

9:56 p.m. — Fields runs right up the middle for a first down and a bit more as the Bears look to get into field goal range (or better).

9:54 p.m. — Roschon Johnson picks up a first down to keep the Bears' drive alive. He's looked impressive in spurts tonight.

9:50 p.m. — Woah! Kevin O'Connell goes for it on 4th & 7, but Hockenson only gets six yards. The play looked good, the Bears' defense looked better. It's Chicago's ball with favorable field position.

The Bears defense comes up big with a 4th down stop



📺: #CHIvsMIN on ESPN/ABC

📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/J5tLNJHyh1 pic.twitter.com/yndUqwgIbf — NFL (@NFL) November 28, 2023

9:47 p.m. — The Bears answer right back and sack Dobbs, with Sweat and Brisker in there to take him down.

9:46 p.m. — Alexander Mattison has drawn the ire of Vikings fans all season, but he just got Minnesota's second half of to a booming start with a 21-yard run.

End of first half: Bears 3, Vikings 3

9:32 p.m. FIELD GOAL — Greg Joseph drills it from 34 yards out, and this mess of a game is all tied at three entering the half.

9:30 p.m. — The Bears' defense has suddenly morphed back into an elite unit on these last two plays, forcing intentional grounding by Dobbs and pressuring him heavily on the following play. It's 3rd & 24 for the Vikings, who might just settle for a gain of a few yards to set up the field goal.

9:27 p.m. — Another first down by K.J. Osborn drives the Vikings into Bears territory, and the Vikings suddenly find themselves 13 yards from the end zone after Kyler Gordon is called for interfering with T.J. Hockenson. The Vikings have a chance to take the lead with 38 seconds on the clock.

9:25 p.m. — What an effort by Brandon Powell to turn around and make a 28-yard grab while falling to the ground. That's the biggest offensive play of the night for the Vikings.

A perfect catch from Brandon Powell on a perfect pass



📺: #CHIvsMIN on ESPN/ABC

📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/J5tLNJHyh1 pic.twitter.com/f6FTBDH6rC — NFL (@NFL) November 28, 2023

9:22 p.m. — Fields had all day to find open receivers on third down and couldn't locate any. Chicago is 0-for-6 on its last six third down opportunities. The Bears are preparing to punt after the two-minute warning.

9:19 p.m. — Fields hits Moore for a 22-yard gain, but his next pass is nearly intercepted by D.J. Wonnum. Neither offense has been able to string together positive plays since that opening drive by Chicago.

9:16 p.m. — Dobbs is nearly intercepted by Jaylon Johnson (again) on third down. The last turnover wasn't Dobbs' fault, but this one should've been a pick. The Bears' defense is all over the Vikings tonight, and Minnesota can't get out of its own way.

9:13 p.m. — Addison, trying to make up for the drop that turned into an interception, looks like he goes for 17 yards, but replay shows his knee was clearly down. It becomes a much smaller 4-yard gain.

9:09 p.m. — Fields comes under pressure on third down and misses D.J. Moore. He's starting to miss these receivers after a hot start. Somehow, the Vikings will have a chance to tie this game or take a lead before halftime.

9:04 p.m. — Dobbs is picked off again! That's two interceptions and just nine passing yards for the Vikings quarterback, but this one doesn't look like his fault - Jordan Addison saw it bounce off his hands. It's Jaquan Brisker with the pick.

9:01 p.m. — Another penalty gifts the Vikings a first down... Both teams are piling on the mistakes.

8:58 p.m. — A roughing-the-passer call goes against the Bears and gives the Vikings some breathing room early in the drive.

8:54 p.m. — Fields overthrows Darnell Mooney on third down, and Mooney gets destroyed in a collision. The Vikings will get the ball back, still somehow only trailing by three. Fields will want that one back.

8:50 p.m. INTERCEPTION — Jaylon Johnson intercepts a throw from Dobbs! That just hung up there. The Bears have been all over Dobbs and the Vikings' offense early on. A taunting penalty after the play hurts Chicago's field position.

Bears 3, Vikings 0

8:44 p.m. FIELD GOAL — The drive fizzles out, and the Bears opt to kick the field goal on 4th & 3. It's good. The Bears are out to an early 3-0 lead, but they've left plenty of points on the board.

End of first quarter: Bears 0, Vikings 0

8:39 p.m. — What a play by Fields to get the ball to a wide open Kmet! The Vikings brought intense pressure, allowing Kmet to get wide open and go for 24 yards. The Bears are in business.

8:38 p.m. — 2nd & 22 becomes 2nd & 27, but the Bears make up 17 yards on two plays. It's 4th & 10, and Chicago is lining up to got for it.

8:36 p.m. — Sacks are killing the Bears in this game. Multiple Vikings defenders wrap up Fields for a 12-yard loss and quickly set Chicago back to 2nd & 22.

8:35 p.m. — The Bears' offense is picking up where it left off. After Fields takes off for 14 yards, he hits Roschon Johnson for 22 yards to take Chicago into Vikings territory.

8:31 p.m. — That's what the Bears got Montez Sweat to do. Sweat sacks Dobbs on third down to force a quick three-and-out and get the ball right back in Fields' hands.

8:27 p.m. — A great start for the Bears ends with zero points as Cairo Santos misses a 48-yard field goal. That's a deflating sequence for Chicago.

8:25 p.m. — The rookie Ivan Pace Jr. finally gets to Fields and drops him for a five-yard loss. It'll be 3rd & long for the Bears.

8:24 p.m. — Fields throws on the run to find Roschon Johnson for a first down, and he quickly follows up with a 13-yard pass to Khalil Herbert. The Bears are driving, and Fields doesn't have an incompletion yet.

8:21 p.m. — The Bears have taken it into Vikings territory with a string of short gains. For Chicago, that's progress.

8:19 p.m. — Fields finds Moore for a short gain and the first 1st down of the night.

8:16 p.m. — The Bears will start with the ball on the road, looking to build early momentum.

8:00 p.m. — Will the Josh Dobbs show continue tonight? He’s had good command of the Vikings’ offense in three games since a trade out of Arizona, flashing an especially strong connection with T.J. Hockenson.

7:45 p.m. — It’s 15 degrees in Minnesota with a feels like of 2, so the roof will come in handy tonight at U.S. Bank Stadium.

7:25 p.m. — Vikings legend Adrian Peterson is in the building to watch his former team.

7:17 p.m. — The Bears enter tonight with the No. 1 and No. 4 picks in the 2024 NFL Draft, and they'll remain in those slots with or without a loss thanks to the strength of schedule tiebreaker.

7:10 p.m. — Heading into Week 13, tonight's game is the difference between the No. 6 and No. 7 seed for the Vikings. The ramifications could be much bigger than that, though. A loss would mean the Packers, Rams and Saints only trail Minnesota by a half-game in the wild card race, while a win would keep the Vikings well within striking distance in the NFC North.

6:55 p.m. — D'Onta Foreman remains out for the Bears, along with CB Tyrique Stevenson.

6:40 p.m. — There's no understating the importance of these final six games for Justin Fields, who is fighting to prove he's the Bears' franchise quarterback. Chicago has a strong chance of landing the No. 1 overall pick in April's draft, thanks to the Panthers' ugly season.

6:20 p.m. — The Vikings are officially without Justin Jefferson tonight, as they'll hold out their star receiver until they return from their bye in Week 14.

Vikings officially downgraded WR Justin Jefferson to out for tonight’s game vs. the Bears. — Adam Schefter (@AdamSchefter) November 27, 2023

What channel is Bears vs. Vikings on today?

Game: Chicago Bears vs. Minnesota Vikings

Chicago Bears vs. Minnesota Vikings Date: Monday, Nov. 27

Monday, Nov. 27 TV channel: ESPN

ESPN Live stream: ESPN+, Fubo (U.S.) | DAZN (Canada)

Bears vs. Vikings will be aired on ESPN, which has long held the broadcast rights to "Monday Night Football."

Joe Buck will lead the broadcast, serving as the game's play-by-play announcer, with Troy Aikman serving as color analyst. Lisa Salters will provide updates from the sidelines.

Fans can also stream the game via ESPN+ or Fubo, which offers a free trial. Viewers in Canada can stream every NFL game via DAZN.

MORE: How Joshua Dobbs got his 'Passtronaut' moniker

Bears vs. Vikings start time

Date: Monday, November 27

Monday, November 27 Start time: 8:15 p.m. ET

Monday's game between the Bears and Vikings will kick off at 8:15 p.m. ET (7:15 p.m. local time) from U.S. Bank Stadium in Minneapolis, Minn.

The Bears haven't beaten the Vikings since 2020, with Minnesota 6-1 against Chicago over the last four seasons. The Vikings are 8-3 at home against the Vikings since 2012.