Even with Netflix’s recommendation algorithm serving you new movies, new TV shows, and original programming tailored to your viewing habits, the streaming service’s firehose of content makes what’s coming and going difficult to parse.

It’s a great month for adult animation, with both the Scott Pilgrim animated show and Blue Eye Samurai hitting Netflix this month. Also, there’s the Squid Game reality show — because right, that’s a thing — and a new season of The Crown. But this month, we’re highlighting The Social Network, with another new David Fincher movie on its way to Netflix... but not for the reasons you probably think.

Editor’s Pick: The Social Network

Hey, did you know that there’s a popular fan theory that bestselling romantic comedy Red, White, and Royal Blue started off as fanfic of The Social Network? Well, now you do!

I could talk about how with each passing year, David Fincher’s Mark Zuckerberg biopic grows increasingly more relevant, as Facebook’s (excuse me, Meta’s) grip on the internet becomes stronger, but that’s been done to the death. Instead, I’m going to praise both Jesse Eisenberg and Andrew Garfield for their electric performances and their zinging chemistry. Come for the Facebook and Mark Zuckerberg origin story, stay for the tale of doomed friendship (and maybe write a fanfic about it?).

Also, this is a great November movie because of the autumnal shots of Harvard and the Winklevoss twins rowing. Impeccable vibes to fuel the dark academia aesthetic TikTok videos.

Available Now

Slayaway Camp 2: Netflix & Kill (Netflix Games)

From Netflix: Leave no survivors. In this sequel, you’re Skullface, a killer stuck inside a retro horror movie catalog — solve puzzles, stalk victims and get stabby.

Available in November

Dead Cells: Netflix Edition (Netflix Games)

From Netflix: You’re a pile of undead sludge. Find a body, uncover secrets and defeat bosses to escape a deserted castle. If you die, restart and reignite the fight.

Elena Knows (Netflix Film)

From Netflix: As her Parkinson’s disease progresses, a woman leads a relentless investigation into finding those responsible for the sudden death of her daughter.

The Railway Men (Netflix Series)

From Netflix: After a deadly gas leaks from a factory in Bhopal, brave railway workers risk their lives to save others in the face of an unspeakable disaster.

Replacing Chef Chico (Netflix Series)

From Netflix: When a head chef falls into a coma, it’s up to his devoted sous-chef to keep their Filipino fine dining restaurant from closing down.

Available Nov. 1

Hurricane Season (Netflix Film)

From Netflix: When a group of kids finds a corpse floating in a canal, the brutal reality behind the perverse crime unravels a town’s hidden secrets.

Locked In (Netflix Film)

From Netflix: A kindly nurse tries to unlock the secrets of a coma patient’s injuries — and discovers the bitter rivalry, infidelity, betrayal and murder behind them.

Mysteries of the Faith (Netflix Documentary)

From Netflix: Mysteries of the Faith is a sweeping docuseries exploring the secrets of Christianity’s most legendary artifacts. From the Veil of the Veronica to the Holy Nails, these cherished objects have mystified and inspired millions for centuries, but only a few have seen them up close and personal. Until now.

Nuovo Olimpo (Netflix Film)

From Netflix: In 1970s Rome, a casual encounter between Enea and Pietro at a movie theater turns into an unforgettable romance — until destiny pulls them apart.

Till Murder Do Us Part: Soering vs. Haysom (Netflix Documentary)

From Netflix: Did Jens Soering murder his girlfriend’s parents in 1985 — or was she the killer? This docuseries digs into questions that still swirl around the case.

Wingwomen (Netflix Film)

From Netflix: Tired of life on the run, a pro thief decides to retire — but not before one easy last job with her partner in crime and a feisty new getaway driver.

13 Going on 30

13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi

60 Days In: Season 5

The Addams Family

The Big Lebowski

The Change-Up

Desperado

Downsizing

Drag Me to Hell

Love in the Wild: Season 1

Madea’s Family Reunion

The Mummy (2017)

Paul Blart: Mall Cop

Paul Blart: Mall Cop 2

Pitch Perfect

The Scorpion King

Scott Pilgrim vs. the World

Sherlock Gnomes

Six Feet Under: Seasons 1-5

Sixteen Candles

The Social Network

Ted 2

Victorious: Season 3

Whiplash

Available Nov. 2

All the Light We Cannot See (Netflix Series)

From Netflix: In the final days of WWII, the paths of a blind French girl and a German soldier collide in a story of the extraordinary power of human connection. Directed by Shawn Levy and based on the Pulitzer Prize-winning novel by Anthony Doerr.

Cigarette Girl (Netflix Series)

From Netflix: A gifted artisan’s journey of love and self-discovery unfolds as she defies tradition within Indonesia’s clove cigarette industry in the 1960s.

Higuita: The Way of the Scorpion (Netflix Documentary)

From Netflix: From poverty to soccer legend, this documentary captures the rise of Colombia’s René Higuita, his revolutionary career and the birth of “The Scorpion.”

Onimusha (Netflix Anime)

From Netflix: With a demonic weapon in hand, a wandering swordsman-for-hire and a samurai brotherhood take on an uprising of the undead.

Unicorn Academy (Netflix Family)

From Netflix: When a dark force threatens to destroy Unicorn Island, a brave teen and her five schoolmates must rise up to protect their beloved magical academy.

Available Nov. 3

Blue Eye Samurai (Netflix Anime)

From Netflix: Driven by a dream of revenge against the white father who made her an outcast in Edo-period Japan, a young warrior cuts a bloody path toward her destiny.

Daily Dose of Sunshine (Netflix Series)

From Netflix: A kind-hearted nurse working in psychiatry goes above and beyond to be a ray of light for those under her care, despite the challenges coming her way.

Erin & Aaron: Season 1

Ferry: The Series (Netflix Series)

From Netflix: Desperate for funds, Ferry Bouman stumbles upon a golden opportunity when a high-profile bust leaves a vacant position among Brabant’s top dealers.

NYAD (Netflix Film)

From Netflix: NYAD tells the remarkable true story of athlete Diana Nyad who, at the age of 60 and with the help of her best friend and coach, commits to achieving her life-long dream: a 110-mile open ocean swim from Cuba to Florida.

Selling Sunset: Season 7 (Netflix Series)

From Netflix: Set in the world of LA’s high-end real estate, Selling Sunset follows the city’s most successful female realtors who all work under the same roof at The Oppenheim Group, the #1 agency in the Hollywood Hills and the Sunset Strip. They work hard and play harder, as they compete with the cutthroat LA market... and each other.

Sly (Netflix Documentary)

From Netflix: His love of film began as an escape from a rocky childhood. From underdog to Hollywood legend, Sylvester Stallone tells his story in this documentary.

The Tailor: Season 3 (Netflix Series)

From Netflix: Peyami’s feelings for Esvet intensify, forcing him to make the difficult choice between their love and his lifelong friendship with Dimitri.

Vacaciones de verano (Netflix Film)

From Netflix: When two friends lose their jobs and find gigs as children’s entertainers at a luxury hotel, they sneak in their kids to give them a summer vacation.

Available Nov. 4

The Amazing Race: Season 17

The Amazing Race: Season 31

Insidious: The Red Door

Lopez vs. Lopez: Season 1

Available Nov. 7

Face Off: Seasons 4-5

The Improv: 60 and Still Standing (Netflix Comedy)

From Netflix: The Improv turns 60 with original performances from today’s most celebrated artists and biggest concert acts, along with exclusive and rarely seen moments from one of the largest comedy archives. It’s a one-night event to honor artists who defined comedy and culture for decades... all while standing in front of a simple brick wall.

Available Nov. 8

The Billionaire, the Butler and the Boyfriend (Netflix Documentary)

From Netflix: How did a conflict between the world’s wealthiest woman and her daughter spiral into national scandal? This riveting docuseries tells the whole story.

The Claus Family 3 (Netflix Film)

When the delivery of presents goes wrong and Grandpa Noël gets in trouble, siblings Jules From Netflix: and Noor must work together to save Christmas. Can they do it?

Cyberbunker: The Criminal Underworld (Netflix Documentary)

From Netflix: This documentary reveals how a group of hackers powered the darkest corners of the internet from a Cold War-era bunker in a quiet German tourist town.

Escaping Twin Flames (Netflix Documentary)

From Netflix: In our digital era, why not turn to the internet to find your soulmate? Enter Jeff and Shaleia, the leaders of Twin Flames Universe who sell online classes that guarantee harmonious union with your destined partner. From the Emmy-nominated filmmaking team behind Seduced: Inside the NXIVM Cult, comes Escaping Twin Flames, a three-part documentary series that pulls back the veil on Twin Flames Universe, a controversial online community that preys on people looking for love. With exclusive access to former members, the series reveals the horrifying stories of coercion and exploitation surrounding Twin Flames Universe – from encouraging stalking behavior to manipulating gender identities. The series also documents the active efforts of family members to rescue their loved ones from Jeff and Shaleia’s web.

Robbie Williams (Netflix Documentary)

From Netflix: After 25 years of his record-breaking solo career, Robbie looks back on his younger self and reflects on a lifetime spent in the spotlight.

Available Nov. 9

Akuma Kun (Netflix Anime)

From Netflix: Akuma Kun, a boy raised by a demon, works with his half-human partner Mephisto III as paranormal investigators to solve various murder and mysteries.

Temple of Film: 100 Years of the Egyptian Theatre (Netflix Documentary)

From Netflix: Guillermo del Toro, Rian Johnson and other film luminaries look back at LA’s historic Egyptian Theatre as it returns to its former movie palace glory.

Available Nov. 10

At the Moment (Netflix Series)

From Netflix: This anthology series set during the pandemic follows 10 unique love stories of passion and heartache.

The Killer (Netflix Film)

From Netflix: After a fateful near miss, an assassin battles his employers — and himself — on an international hunt for retribution he insists isn’t personal.

Team Ninja Warrior: Season 2

Available Nov. 11

Laguna Beach: Season 3

Available Nov. 14

Criminal Code (Netflix Series)

From Netflix: To crack the code of an investigation into a larger-than-life robbery, federal agents need to get creative.

Dubai Bling: Season 2 (Netflix Series)

From Netflix: New relationships, new love and plenty of new drama as Dubai’s favorite frenemies ball out and fall out in epic fashion.

How to Become a Mob Boss (Netflix Documentary)

From Netflix: Narrator Peter Dinklage guides you through this darkly satirical how-to guide that explores the rise and fall of history’s most notorious mob bosses - from Al Capone to Pablo Escobar - and their tactics for success.

The Netflix Cup: Swing to Survive (Netflix Live Event)

From Netflix: This fall, in a clash of wheels and irons, stars of two Netflix sports series will face off in The Netflix Cup, Netflix’s first-ever live sports event featuring athletes from Formula 1: Drive to Survive and Full Swing. The Formula 1® drivers and PGA TOUR professionals will pair up to compete in a match play tournament at Wynn Golf Club at Wynn Las Vegas, The Netflix Cup is set to stream live on Netflix beginning at 3p.m. PT / 6p.m. ET on Tuesday, November 14th.

Suburræterna (Netflix Series)

From Netflix: While chaos rules over Rome, established alliances are at risk as tensions rise with emerging clans. The world of “Suburra” takes a new turn.

Available Nov. 15

Feedback (Netflix Series)

From Netflix: A former rock star with a faulty memory and a family in shambles, all due to his addiction problem, sets off on a frantic search to find his missing son.

First Wives Club: Seasons 1-3

Matt Rife: Natural Selection (Netflix Comedy)

From Netflix: A new stand-up special from comedian Matt Rife.

Million Dollar Decorators: Season 1

Available Nov. 16

Best. Christmas. Ever! (Netflix Film)

From Netflix: After a twist of fate brings their families together for Christmas, Charlotte sets out to prove her old friend Jackie’s life is too good to be true.

The Crown: Season 6 Part 1 (Netflix Series)

From Netflix: Queen Elizabeth II reflects on her legacy and lineage as Diana dazzles the public in the final weeks of her life and the monarchy faces a reckoning.

Downton Abbey

Harriet

In Love and Deep Water (Netflix Film)

From Netflix: Romance, mystery and mayhem unfolds aboard a luxury liner heading for the Aegean Sea when a butler and a passenger try to solve a baffling murder.

Lone Survivor

Available Nov. 17

All-Time High (Netflix Film)

From Netflix: A con artist in dire need of cash and a woman with a crypto fortune hit it off. Is she the target of his dreams, or is the scammer about to get scammed?

Believer 2 (Netflix Film)

A determined detective continues his search for the truth behind Asia’s largest drug organization and its elusive boss he has unfinished business with.

CoComelon Lane (Netflix Film)

From Netflix: Join your favorite “CoComelon” characters on imaginative adventures as they explore feelings — and the world around them — in this story-driven series.

The Dads (Netflix Documentary)

From Netflix: In this gentle meditation on fatherhood, brotherhood and manhood, five fathers of trans children join Dennis Shepard – the father of slain gay college student Matthew Shepard – for a weekend fishing trip in rural Oklahoma. As the men cast their lines into the river, they find common ground across racial, geographical and generational lines: their unconditional love for their children.

The Queenstown Kings (Netflix Film)

From Netflix: After his father’s death, a washed-up soccer star returns to rural Queenstown and struggles to connect with his son, a promising player with big dreams.

Rustin (Netflix Film)

From Netflix: Activist Bayard Rustin faces racism and homophobia as he helps change the course of Civil Rights history by orchestrating the 1963 March on Washington.

Sagrada Familia: Season 2 (Netflix Series)

From Netflix: Haunted by the past, Gloria will stop at nothing to carve out a future for her family while new schemes and mysteries bubble up in the neighborhood.

Scott Pilgrim Takes Off (Netflix Anime)

From Netflix: Scott Pilgrim meets the girl of his dreams, Ramona Flowers, but learns he must defeat her seven evil exes in order to date her. Then things get even more complicated.

Stamped from the Beginning (Netflix Documentary)

Using innovative animation and expert insights, this documentary based on Ibram X. Kendi’s bestseller explores the history of racist ideas in America.

Available Nov. 20

Shahs of Sunset: Seasons 1-2

Available Nov. 21

Leo (Netflix Family)

From Netflix: Adam Sandler is a lizard named Leo in this coming-of-age musical comedy about the last year of elementary school as seen through the eyes of a class pet.

Available Nov. 22

Crime Diaries: The Celebrity Stylist (Netflix Film)

From Netflix: When an up-and-coming stylist is found stabbed to death in his home, a young detective is given 20 days to solve the case. Inspired by true events.

High on the Hog: How African American Cuisine Transformed America: Season 2 — (Netflix Documentary)

From Netflix: In season two of the immersive award-winning docu-series High on the Hog, host Stephen Satterfield travels across the United States to uncover how African-American cuisine has fueled social justice movements, transformed communities and awakened cultural creativity in America in powerful and lasting ways.

Squid Game: The Challenge (Netflix Series)

*New episodes released weekly, through December 6

From Netflix: 456 real players will enter the competition show in pursuit of a life-changing reward of USD $4.56 million. As they compete through a series of games inspired by the original show - plus surprising new additions - their strategies, alliances, and character will be put to the test while competitors are eliminated around them.

Available Nov. 23

Love Island USA: Season 3

My Daemon (Netflix Anime)

From Netflix: To save his mother, a kind-hearted boy and his tiny daemon friend set out on a journey across post-apocalyptic Japan as dark forces close in.

My Little Pony: Make Your Mark: Chapter 6 (Netflix Family)

From Netflix: Opaline has captured nearly all the power of Equestria, and time’s running out! Can the ponies team up with the dragons to save magic and restore peace?

Available Nov. 24

A Nearly Normal Family (Netflix Series)

From Netflix: The world of a seemingly perfect family shatters when a shocking murder proves that they’re willing to make desperate moves to protect each other.

DOI BOY (Netflix Film)

From Netflix: A refugee builds a new identity as a sex worker in Thailand and gets caught up in a client’s risky scheme that might lead to a better life.

I Don’t Expect Anyone to Believe Me (Netflix Film)

From Netflix: A writer’s career — and entire life — suddenly goes off script when he falls prey to a dangerous web of criminals right before moving to Barcelona.

Last Call for Istanbul (Netflix Film)

From Netflix: A chance meeting at the airport leads two married people to an unforgettable night full of excitement, desire, and temptation in New York City.

My Demon (Netflix Series)

From Netflix: Chaebol heiress Do Do Hee is an adversary to many, and Jung Koo Won is a powerful entity superior to humans. However, one day, Jung Koo Won loses his powers. Forced to collaborate with Do Do Hee to regain them, sparks of romance begin to fly between them as they embark on this journey together.

Wedding Games (Netflix Film)

From Netflix: When Alex and Eva choose to exchange vows at the very spot they first crossed paths, a series of hilarious missteps derails their journey to the altar.

Available Nov. 27

Go Dog Go: Season 4 (Netflix Family)

From Netflix: Tag and her best friend Scooch love lending a paw to their friends around Pawston, whether it’s delivering cookie boxes or hosting the Dogcathalon!

Available Nov. 28

Comedy Royale (Netflix Series)

From Netflix: Hand-picked by Korean comedy icons, five teams of rising comics battle for a chance to host in a Netflix show — delivering nonstop, zany laughter.

Love Like a K-Drama (Netflix Series)

From Netflix: Four actresses from Japan go to South Korea to audition and act alongside Korean actors for roles in a series of love stories. Will true romance follow?

Onmyoji (Netflix Anime)

From Netflix: In the gilded enclave of the imperial court, a gifted mystic befriends a brilliant musician, and together they solve cases rising from the demonic realm.

Verified Stand-Up (Netflix Comedy)

From Netflix: 10 comics. 10 sets. 1 show. Introducing: Verified Stand-Up, a new stand-up comedy series Filmed at Webster Hall in New York City, the series features 10 of the best comedians in the game: Asif Ali, Dulcé Sloan, Gianmarco Soresi, Isiah Kelly, Leslie Liao, Nimesh Patel, Robby Hoffman, Rosebud Baker, Sabrina Wu, and Vanessa Gonzalez. Over the course of two-episodes, discover your new favorite comedian.

Available Nov. 29

American Symphony (Netflix Documentary)

Bad Surgeon: Love Under the Knife (Netflix Documentary)

From Netflix: This shocking docuseries about one of the biggest frauds in modern medical history exposes a thoracic surgeon famous for groundbreaking achievements in the field of regenerative medicine.

Available Nov. 30

The Bad Guys: A Very Bad Holiday (Netflix Family)

From Netflix: Mr. Wolf and his crew of animal outlaws realize they’ll need to restore the city’s Christmas spirit to keep their annual holiday heist afloat.

Family Switch (Netflix Film)

From Netflix: Jess and Bill Walker are doing their best to keep their family connected as their children grow older, more independent, and more distant. When a chance encounter with an astrological reader causes the family to wake up to a full body switch, on the morning of the most important day of each of their lives, can the Walkers unite to land a promotion, college interview, record deal and soccer tryout? Jennifer Garner, Ed Helms, Emma Myers and Brady Noon star in this family comedy directed by McG and based on the book “Bedtime For Mommy” by Amy Krouse-Rosenthal.

Hard Days (Netflix Film)

From Netflix: Already running from a mess of problems, a desperate cop thinks he’s gotten away with a hit-and-run. But there was a witness, and they’ve got his number.

Obliterated (Netflix Series)

From Netflix: An elite special forces team must thwart a deadly threat in Las Vegas in this high-octane action-comedy series from the creators of “Cobra Kai.”

School Spirits: Season 1

Virgin River: Season 5 Part 2 (Netflix Series)

From Netflix: Mel adjusts to a different pace of life, Jack works to grow his business, and the town faces new threats as secrets begin to surface in Virgin River.