Halloween in Monster Hunter Now is the first themed event to come to Capcom and Niantic’s monster-hunting AR game.

The main draw is acquiring the Jack-o’-Head Halloween armor, which can be sourced from collecting Pumpkin Tickets, a currency specific to the event.

As well as this, the weekend introduces a pumpkin rock Kulu-Ya-Ku and the chance to add a Halloween medal for your collection.

Here’s everything we know about Monster Hunter Now’s Halloween event — from how to get Pumpkin Tickets to dates, times, and other event bonuses.

Monster Hunter Now Halloween event dates, times, and bonuses

Monster Hunter Now’s Halloween event takes place between Wednesday, Oct. 25, at 9 a.m. to Tuesday, Oct. 31, at 11.59 p.m. local time, and has two phases:

Start of event onwards: Pumpkin Tickets, Halloween Pumpkin Hunt Quests available (active until end of event)

Pumpkin Tickets, Halloween Pumpkin Hunt Quests available (active until end of event) Saturday, Oct. 28, at 9 a.m. local time onwards: Pumpkin rock Kulu-Ya-Ku in the wild, Halloween Medal Acquisition Quests available (active until end of event)

In summary — you can begin earning Pumpkin Tickets at any time through the questline, but it isn’t until Saturday morning where you can encounter pumpkin rock Kulu-Ya-Ku and earn the Halloween medal.

Pumpkin rock Kulu-Ya-Ku and Halloween Medal quest now live in #MHNow pic.twitter.com/czLNPbQy3u — Matthew Reynolds (@Crazyreyn) October 28, 2023

As well as the above quests, monsters, and currencies, the game’s various arenas also see a Halloween makeover — with the world map, encounter screen, and battle arena becoming adorned with pumpkins.

How to get Pumpkin Tickets in Monster Hunter Now

Collecting Pumpkin Tickets is how you source the event-exclusive Jack-o’-Head armor piece. You can get Pumpkin Tickets in Monster Hunter Now by:

Completing Pumpkin Hunt Quests in the Special tab during the Halloween event (18 total: one per quest in the first step, five per quest in the second)

in the Special tab during the Halloween event (18 total: one per quest in the first step, five per quest in the second) Defeating pumpkin rock Kulu-Ya-Ku (Saturday, Oct. 28, at 9 a.m. local time until the end of the event)

This means, until Saturday morning, you’ll be capped with how many Pumpkin Tickets you can earn until pumpkin rock Kulu-Ya-Ku makes its debut.

Both of the above sources are available to players who have reached Hunter Rank 11 and above.

Monster Hunter Now Halloween Pumpkin Hunt quest steps

You can find the following steps in Events part of the Special quests screen. All steps will expire at the end of the Halloween event at the end of Oct. 31.

Step 1 of 3

Obtain Lollipop Candy from gathering points (10) — 1 Pumpkin Ticket, 100 HR Points

Slay large monsters (15) — 1 Pumpkin Ticket, 100 HR Points

Slay monsters (30) — 1 Pumpkin Ticket, 100 HR Points

Step 2 of 3

Obtain Lollipop Candy from gathering points (20) — 5 Pumpkin Tickets, 150 HR Points

Slay large monsters (30) — 5 Pumpkin Tickets, 150 HR Points

Slay monsters (50) — 5 Pumpkin Tickets, 150 HR Points

Step 3 of 3

Obtain Lollipop Candy from gathering points (50) — 1,000 Zenny, 200 HR Points

Slay large monsters (60) — 1,000 Zenny, 200 HR Points

Slay monsters (80) — 1,000 Zenny, 200 HR Points

Thanks to FranklyNinja on Reddit for helping fill in the gaps with the above. As with the story items you need to acquire from the wild, you can obtain Lollipop Candy from interacting with any gathering point.

How to get Jack-o’-Head armor, upgrade requirements

To get the Jack-o’-Head armor in Monster Hunter Now’s Halloween event, you must first earn 10 Pumpkin Tickets.

Here’s how it looks in-game courtesy of minimi_249 on Twitter / X:

Upgrading the armor then requires further Pumpkin Tickets, which can only be sourced from the Halloween event. Developer Niantic has said once you have spent 70 Pumpkin Tickets on Jack-o’-Head armor upgrades, further improvements will then only regular crafting materials. As such, this is a good number to aim for if you prefer to continue upgrading after the event ends.

Jack-o’-Head armor skill explained

Once equipped, the Jack-o’-Head armor has the skill Solidarity (Pumpkin Hunt). This is a party-based skill where having multiple players with the skill active increases attack power. During the Halloween event, this effect is increased by five.

As such, this is a rather situational skill, as not only do you need to be hunting with other players, but doing so during the Halloween event (which ends after Oct. 31) will see the most benefit.

It’s entirely possible this skill will appear in future armor pieces to increase its potency (such as during next year’s Halloween event), so crafting one now could be a sound investment for those looking to play with other hunters. Otherwise, for solo players, it might be simply a piece to add to your collection, especially if the ability to transmog (change the appearance of your armor) comes to the game one day.

Where to find pumpkin rock Kulu-Ya-Ku in Monster Hunter Now

A Halloween-themed Kulu-Ya-Ku holding a pumpkin rock will “appear in larger numbers than usual” from Saturday, Oct. 28 at 9 a.m. local time until the end of Oct. 31.

By its very nature, Kulu-Ya-Ku appears in all three habitats (Forest, Desert, and Swamp) meaning they can appear anywhere on the map.

Beyond the novelty of battling a Halloween-themed monster, taking down these special pumpkin rock Kulu-Ya-Ku will reward you with Pumpkin Tickets.

Niantic has confirmed any pumpkin rock Kulu-Ya-Ku tagged with paintballs during the event will continue to drop Pumpkin Tickets after the event ends — giving you extra time if needed.

Looking for more guides? Our Monster Hunter Now tips and tricks page can give you some extra pointers, while our monster list delves into all other available encounters.