Spurs have fallen to their fourth defeat in five with a 2-1 reverse at home to West Ham – and they only have themselves to blame.

Ange Postecoglou’s men were sitting pretty at 1-0 up thanks to an early Cristian Romero header, then missed a host of chances to extend their lead against a Hammers side who couldn’t get out of their own end.

Yet after spurning their own opportunities, Tottenham presented two gift-wrapped chances to their opponents.

Facebook Twitter Whatsapp Reddit Email Share

Their defence was nowhere to be seen as Mohammed Kudus was able to shoot, with his effort deflecting off two Spurs players and into the path of Jarrod Bowen to level the scores.

Then Destiny Udogie’s blind backpass allowed James Ward-Prowse an easy shot on goal, and while he hit the post, the rebound fell perfectly for the midfielder to finish on the rebound.

“It’s unacceptable,” said captain Heung-Min Son.

“I think players should take responsibility, this is unacceptable.

Advertisement

“The fans don’t deserve this, especially when you play at home, when you go 1-0 up early on you should play with even more energy but we didn’t, and that’s why we lost.

“West Ham have always been tough to play against so we knew what was coming.

“But we were soft, and especially in the Premier League, even when you’re winning 2-0, 3-0, you don’t know what’s going to happen in the end. 1-0 is not enough, you have to try to kill the game.”

The coach wasn’t quite as damning, but still described the showing as poor.

“It’s another game where we’ve dominated a game of football but we haven’t taken advantage,” said Postecoglou.

“I thought we were poor in both areas with our finishing and also both goals we conceded were terrible.

There’s no point in feeling sorry for ourselves, looking for a cuddle anywhere. There’s only one way to change our circumstances and that is to come here on Sunday and put in a performance, not just play good football but go out there and show some conviction about ourselves as a team.

Advertisement

“Sometimes we can disguise how we’re going by playing some nice stuff but like I said from day one, that’s not what I’m about.

“I want to win and that’s why I came to this football club and that’s the message. We’ve still got a long way to go, I’ve said that from the start, we’re still right at the beginning what we need to create and days like today just give me further evidence and fuel of how much we need to do.”

James Ward-Prowse puts West Ham ahead against Tottenham ????



Lyenoma Udogie’s back pass to Guglielmo Vicario is short of the mark and Ward-Prowse seizes the moment.



Stadium silenced.



LIVE | https://t.co/0TogbUnBLK#PL #OptusSport pic.twitter.com/7h3q96W086 — Optus Sport (@OptusSport) December 7, 2023

On Optus Sport, ex-Spurs boss Tim Sherwood tore strips off Spurs.

“They’re quietly having a bad run, it’s five without a win now,” he said.

“They’ve led in every game and I’ve said when they take the lead, I wouldn’t say the game is over. It’s not good enough.

“But they’ve changed. The last three or four years they’ve been watching some dross there but it’s better to watch. It’s game management.

Advertisement

“They go ahead and they’re already winning the game but they try and win it again and again and leave themselves open. Jarrod Bowen was outstanding out there and you can really exploit them. They leave space and they make poor decisions on the ball and it’s costing them at the moment.”

Spurs had rebounded from three consecutive defeats with a stirring 3-3 draw at Manchester City over the weekend, but are now outside the Champions League qualification spots in fifth place – and level with Manchester United.

1 – Tottenham are the first side in Premier League history to…



…fail to win five consecutive games despite going 1-0 up in each match.



…lose three consecutive home games despite going up 1-0 up in each match.



Spursy. pic.twitter.com/DW6mgUVXnW — OptaJoe (@OptaJoe) December 7, 2023

West Ham aren’t far behind, with this result lifting them to ninth, just three points back from Spurs.

“Huge performance because of the quality of the opposition,” said coach David Moyes.

“We were up against it tonight. We had to dig in. Thankfully we just about scraped it.

“The quality Tottenham showed in the first half, I don’t know if we touched the ball for eight or nine minutes.

Advertisement

“We gained a bit of confidence once we got some passes. We wanted to get after them a bit more but by the same breath we were cautious about them picking us off.

“We are a team who can give some of the good teams a bloody nose, we have that in us.”

Dwight McNeil fires Everton into the lead against Newcastle!



Kieran Trippier makes the mistake and the Everton man makes him pay.



It’s a massive goal for the Toffees and Goodison Park goes wild.



LIVE | https://t.co/W8Ud2jDSwD#PL #OptusSport pic.twitter.com/RVSGfbKcKc — Optus Sport (@OptusSport) December 7, 2023

In the other match, Everton trounced Newcastle 3-0 to move clear of the relegation zone despite their ten point penalty for financial irregularities.

They left it late, with goals from Dwight McNeil, Abdoulaye Doucoure and Brazilian striker Beto enough to down the Magpies.

“Without those 10 points, we’d be in an amazing position,” said Toffees boss Sean Dyche. “20 points would be amazing relatively to the last two seasons here.

“We’ll see what the appeal brings. The mentality is key for me, we took a knock but there have been a lot of knocks here over the last couple of years.

Advertisement

“But the team mentality is growing. I can’t emphasise it enough, the commitment to each other and the connection is a powerful thing because I know we’ve got quality.”

Eddie Howe’s side are proving one of the most inconsistent in the league, albeit with a lengthy injury list.

In the last month, they have defeated Manchester United, Arsenal and Chelsea – as well as drawing at French heavyweights PSG in the Champions League – but have now lost comfortably to two cellar dwellers in Everton and Bournemouth.

“We have to do better,” said Howe.

“There are reasons behind every performance and we have struggled to change players. That is a big miss with the quality of players out. The longer you do it, the harder it gets. I am disappointed, a missed opportunity, we did not grab it.

“The game was there for us to win in the second half. The first half was even and we had them penned in in the second half. We conceded the first goal and it changed the momentum of the match. Frustrating and a chance missed.”