The UTSA Roadrunners (8-4) take on the Marshall Thundering Herd (6-6) on Tuesday night in the Scooter's Coffee Frisco Bowl (9 p.m ET, ESPN). The matchup sees the Roadrunners as large betting favorites on odds boards. Currently, USTA is favored by on the point spread, with Marshall available for on the moneyline.

The Roadrunners are in their 13th season as a program but have yet to win a bowl game. This is the fourth bowl game they've played in five years. Marshall is competing in a bowl game for the seventh straight year.

These teams have been on different streaks as the year has progressed. UTSA has won seven of its last eight games, while Marshall has lost six of its last eight.

Here are the live odds, team betting news, player props and our betting prediction for UTSA vs. Marshall in Tuesday's Scooter's Coffee Frisco Bowl.

Live odds for UTSA vs. Marshall: Point spread, moneyline, total

Check out UTSA vs. Marshall live odds, including the spread, moneyline and total available at the best online sportsbooks.

More: North Carolina vs. West Virginia odds in Duke's Mayo Bowl | Best college football betting promos

UTSA Roadrunners betting news

UTSA has hit its stride over the second half of the season, before losing 29-16 to Tulane in its last outing. The Roadrunners scored at least 34 points in every win since Oct. 7, proving to be an offensive juggernaut. Everything starts with star QB Frank Harris.

The dual-threat QB has completed 64.9% of his passes this season for 2,506 yards and 18 touchdowns. While impressive, he totaled 4,059 yards and 32 TDs on a 69.6% completion rate last year. UTSA's offense is good, but we've seen a better version of the unit in recent seasons.

Still, Harris' experience and talent often shine through. UTSA's leading receiver Joshua Cephus did the heavy lifting for the unit. He caught 82 passes for 1,049 yards and nine touchdowns. The offense also had four ball carriers with at least 323 rushing yards, so there are plenty of threats for head coach Jeff Traylor to unleash.

UTSA averaged 31.7 points and 424.6 total yards per game, which rank 37th and 39th in the nation, respectively. Roadrunners opponents ranked 69th in third down conversion rate, but the defense allowed an 87.5% score rate in the red zone (99th).

UTSA is 5-6-1 ATS and 4-7-1 to the OVER.

UTSA Roadrunners opting out of Scooter's Coffee Frisco Bowl

The Roadrunners will be without their best defensive player, Trey Moore, as he looks to jump to a Power 5 school. Moore led the conference in sacks, so he's a star-level absence for the unit.

Here are USTA players who won't play in the Frisco Bowl.

Trey Moore, EDGE (transfer portal)

Syrus Dumas, DB (transfer portal)

Xavier Spencer, CB (transfer portal)

Kyle Eaves, WR (transfer portal)

Marshall Thundering Herd betting news

The toughest blow for Marshall in this game is being without second-year starting QB Cam Fancher (transfer portal). Instead, Marshall will start freshman Cole Pennington, who is the son of former Marshall star QB Chad Pennington. Pennington has thrown six interceptions and zero touchdowns on only 79 passing attempts this season.

Marshall's offense will continue to run through star RB Rasheen Ali. The senior speedster carried the offense even when Fancher was under center, totaling 1,256 yards and 15 touchdowns on the season. This offense has struggled despite Ali's efforts, ranking 93rd in scoring and 89th in yards per game.

On the season, Marshall is 4-8 ATS and 6-6 on the O/U board. The Herd won only three of their eight conference games on the season.

Marshall Thundering Herd opting out of Scooter's Coffee Frisco Bowl

While UTSA has the biggest individual loss for this game, the Herd's depth has taken a huge blow thanks to transfer portal entrants.

Chase Harrison, QB (transfer portal)

Brandon McElroy, DL (transfer portal)

Caleb Coombs, WR (transfer portal)

Zion Odoms, WR (transfer portal)

Jayven Hall, LB (transfer portal)

Cam Fancher, QB (transfer portal)

Thomas Lane, DL (transfer portal)

Chinazo Obobi, OT (transfer portal)

Maurice Jones, RB (transfer portal)

Sean Sallis, TE (transfer portal)

Myles Bell, DB (transfer portal)

Trent Holler, iOL (transfer portal)

Joshua McTier, CB (transfer portal)

Jabarrek Hopkins, DL (transfer portal)

CK Obobi, OL (transfer portal)

Sean Ellis, TE (transfer portal)

TyShawn Hurst, OT (transfer portal)

Elijah Russell, EDGE (transfer portal)

UTSA vs. Marshall prop bets at BetMGM Sportsbook

BetMGM Sportsbook offers some excellent player props for the Scooter's Coffee Frisco Bowl between the Roadrunners and Thundering Herd.

Frank Harris prop bets

237.5 passing yards OVER (-115) / UNDER (-115)

Passing TDs OVER 1.5 (-125) / UNDER 1.5 (-105)

Anytime touchdown scorer (-110)

Joshua Cephus props bets

80.5 receiving yards OVER (-115) / UNDER (-115)

Anytime touchdown scorer (-190)

Rasheen Ali prop bets

80.5 rushing yards OVER (-115) / UNDER (-115)

Anytime touchdown scorer (-175)

Kevorian Barnes prop bets

64.5 rushing yards OVER (-115) / UNDER (-115)

Anytime touchdown scorer (-135)

Robert Henry prop bets

Anytime touchdown scorer (-130)

UTSA vs. Marshall prediction: Frank Harris leads Roadrunners past the Herd

Even with the transfer portal hitting this game hard, the UTSA offense will be too much for Marshall to keep up with. The Roadrunners push the pace in a way that Marshall can't replicate, and the Thundering Herd aren't efficient enough to make the most of what few scoring opportunities they'll have.

The Thundering Herd could find themselves down several scores by the end of the first frame if Pennington turns the ball over, as he's prone to do. UTSA is a well-oiled machine against teams with similar or worse talent, and Marshall is in that latter category.

It's a big number to lay, but we're on the favorite Tuesday night.

Pick: UTSA