Gun import Jordon Crawford has exploded late to lead the Tasmania JackJumpers to a club-record score in a 105-95 NBL road win over the defending champion Sydney Kings.

The American guard opened the final period at Qudos Bank Arena on Sunday with four consecutive three-pointers and scored all of his team’s points on a stunning 14-2 run.

It gave the JackJumpers a game-high 19-point lead and just about put the result to bed after Sydney had lost Jaylin Galloway (shoulder) and Jonah Bolden (fouled out).

Facebook Twitter Whatsapp Reddit Email Share

The Kings never gave up but could not close the gap as Crawford finished with a game-high 32 points.

Fellow import Milton Doyle and Majok Deng each scored 17 for Tasmania, who recorded their second win over Sydney in as many attempts this season.

“I had a couple of opportunities where I’m open and I shot the ball,” Crawford said. “Marcus (Lee) and Majok were setting great screens and in order for me to get those shots, them guys have to get me open.

“They did a hell of a job in doing that and it was a team effort. The ball was hot, the ball was moving and everybody contributed today.”

Advertisement

Sydney only had themselves to blame for the loss as they went 10-of-37 from three-point range.

Jaylen Adams (18 points, 10 rebounds) and Jordan Hunter (16, five) couldn’t lift the Kings over the line.

“Sometimes you just miss shots,” Kings coach Mahmoud Abdelfattah said.

“We’ve been practising these for the last two-and-a-half months, we got some great looks and at the end of the day that’s the difference.

“When you’re missing a ton of shots you’ve got to win the offensive rebounding battle and they beat us on that.”

Tasmania burst out to a double-figure lead when they piled on 36 points during the opening period, and the margin blew out to 18 before halftime.

Doyle (12 points), Deng and Jack McVeigh (both 10) all did plenty of damage on the scoreboard in the first half for the visitors, who never trailed. Galloway’s huge dunk sparked Sydney early in the third period and they cut the margin to three.

Advertisement

But he and Bolden soon exited and Crawford’s scintillating run gave the JackJumpers the upper hand. The Kings are hopeful Galloway will be fit for Saturday’s trip to take on the Cairns Taipans.

“The doctors may have other plans, but he’s doing alright,” Abdelfattah said. “Obviously he was out for the rest of the game and he’s in pain a little bit, but we’ll see.”

Goulding’s golden touch too much for Breakers

Veteran shooter Chris Goulding has fired a series of clutch three-pointers to pilot NBL ladder leaders Melbourne United to a 97-88 win over New Zealand.

Goulding had a quiet first half but drove daggers into the visitors at John Cain Arena on Sunday when he found range after the main break.

In his 300th game for Melbourne, Goulding delivered his trademark when he twice launched crucial bombs to help his team edge ahead in the dying stages of a tight contest.

Goulding’s fade-away from the corner gave United a game-high nine-point lead with three minutes left as he finished with 4-of-5 shooting from distance.

Advertisement

“We can’t not talk about CG’s couple of threes down the stretch,” coach Dean Vickerman told reporters post-game. “They were pretty incredible.”

Jo Lual-Acuil (16 points) and import Ian Clark (18) also came up with big plays in the final period as Melbourne outscored their opponents 33-25 with the game on the line.

Lual-Acuil shone in his second game back from a long-term wrist injury, and Clark’s wide-open three restored United’s nine-point buffer with 38 seconds left to play. Such was Goulding’s confidence in his teammate, he turned around to celebrate the game-sealing bucket with the home crowd before Clark had even released his shot.

Melbourne had five scorers in double figures in an even team performance in the absence of injured guard Matthew Dellavedova, who has missed two games because of his latest concussion setback.

The result was Melbourne’s ninth consecutive home win over New Zealand and gave them a 6-1 record for the season.

The Breakers (1-2) led by six points midway through the third period but ran out of steam in a tough loss that ended a gruelling road trip, which included two exhibition matches against NBA opposition in the United States.

Advertisement

Zylan Cheatham (30 points) and Parker Jackson-Cartwright (18) threatened to drive the Breakers to a rousing victory until the guard fouled out inside the last four minutes.

Former NBA forward Anthony Lamb had 15 points and five rebounds on his NBL debut for New Zealand after signing as a replacement for injured import Justinian Jessup.

But Breakers coach Mody Maor was in no mood to look for positives in his team’s performance.

“We have very high standards for how we want to play and this isn’t it,” Maor said. “Lack of focus, missing key players, making mistakes on covers.

“I don’t care where we flew from, what our schedule is, what happened the day before – I care zero. This isn’t the level of execution that we expect from ourselves.”

Shea Ili (16 points, four assists) was important for Melbourne and Luke Travers finished with 16 points, including 15 in the first half.

Sixers, Phoenix continue to rise

Advertisement

The Adelaide 36ers have told each other some hard truths before responding in style to heap more pressure on the Perth Wildcats with their 89-78 victory.

In the other NBL match on Saturday, South East Melbourne Phoenix made it three straight wins, beating the Bullets 96-73 as Alan Williams led the way against a side looking lost without the suspended Aron Baynes.

In Adelaide, the 36ers responded to a disappointing loss on Thursday night, also at home to the Phoenix, and handed the Wildcats a third straight defeat with their 11-point win.

Sitting in bottom spot with one win from five games coming into the macth, the players got together to draw a line in the sand.

It certainly worked and their effort, energy and desperation was dramatically improved against Perth, but so was the execution and a focus on getting Isaac Humphries more involved inside.

He put up 26 points and eight rebounds in a match-winning performance but the shortening of the rotation to use just eight players from coach CJ Bruton worked too.

Advertisement

“We met as a playing group yesterday and talked through a lot of stuff,” Humphries said.

“We just wanted to come out today and put into action everything we talked about.

“We executed what the coaches needed from us tonight and we executed what we, as a playing group, wanted to execute as well.”

A third straight defeat for the Wildcats has them struggling at 2-4 this season.

Coach John Rillie is focused know they aren’t playing well and the improvement needs to start offensively.

“We’re not playing good basketball at this point in time,” Rillie said.

“An area we need to improve on is our offence. That’s where we have to find some type of rhythm and we’ve yet to do that in these last couple of games.

Advertisement

“The game’s played at both ends and you need to find a rhythm to generate some natural enthusiasm, and we haven’t been able to do that for good stretches.”

Brisbane coach Justin Schueller always knew losing his superstar centre Baynes with a five-game suspension was going to be challenging, but that was magnified on Saturday night.

Williams produced 21 points and six rebounds for South East Melbourne but Brisbane will still be without Baynes for next weekend’s double-header away to Perth and at home to Tasmania, and he needs to find some answers.

“We’ve got to have solutions right now for two more games without Banger (Baynes) and that’s the thing that’s sitting right in the front of my head, but scoring 73 points isn’t enough to get it done in this league,” Schueller said.

“Then giving them 96 is way too many as well so we have a lot of stuff that we still have to work on.”

JLA return lifts United to win in Wollongong

Advertisement

Melbourne United have celebrated the long-awaited return of Jo Lual-Acuil but it was fellow centre Ariel Hukporti who starred in a 101-91 defeat of the lllawarra Hawks.

NBL heavyweights United only kicked clear from last season’s wooden spooners towards the end of the third quarter following a high-scoring first half at WIN Entertainment Centre on Friday.

Again sloppy from the field, the Hawks missed nine consecutive shots to finish the third period as United (5-1) opened up a 14-point lead that proved match-winning.

“We just have these patches against really good basketball teams that let us down,” said Hawks coach Jacob Jackomas.

“The shots weren’t disgusting today, just some little things right now. We said that before with the team is that we need to do all the little things right against this basketball team and we didn’t.”

Big man Gary Clark (17 points) was one of few Hawks who got his eye in, with imports Tyler Harvey (19 points, six from 16 attempts) and Justin Robinson (nine points, two from eight) again struggling.

Robinson was one of three Hawks to foul out, alongside big men Sam Froling and Lachlan Olbrich.

Advertisement

Despite Illawarra’s shooting issues, United gave up more first half points (51) than in any other of their games this season.

The Hawks dominated the offensive glass (18-10) and punished United with 21 points from turnovers.

But they finished the day shooting at 38 per cent from the field to United’s 53, which made things difficult, especially when United locked the paint down in the third quarter.

“It took us a little bit of time to wake up with their physicality and the way they got after it,” said United coach Dean Vickerman.

NBL champion Lual-Acuil returned from a wrist injury for the first minutes of his United comeback, while NBA hopeful Hukporti (21 points, 10 rebounds) shone for the visitors.

Hukporti was United’s rock under the basket and a defensive board in the final minute sealed his third double-double from five games this season.

Advertisement

“I think I’ve found my role in the team now, it took me a while because I’m coming off the (achilles) injury and it was a year out,” Hukporti said.

That is vintage Tyler Harvey ????



Can he pull the Hawks back into this one?



Catch the last quarter live on ESPN via Kayo ???? pic.twitter.com/40zoswVyPh — NBL (@NBL) October 20, 2023

“I’ve got it now, I know what my role is and I think I did a great job today.”

Lual-Acuil had a scratchy start, missing his first two free-throws and subbing out to change out of an incorrect pair of shorts, but went on to register 12 points on a minutes restriction.

“He’s going to see double-teams down there so once we get our spacing right and our cutting right to play off that, he’s going to be a weapon,” Vickerman said.

Projected NBA draft lottery pick AJ Johnson had his best Hawks game yet, but was again short on opportunities.

The teenager set the crowd alight with his first NBL three-pointer just after quarter time and sent a dime through traffic that led to a Gary Clark jam on transition soon afterwards.

Advertisement

Creek swamps Sixers for Phoenix

A powerful second quarter propelled South East Melbourne Phoenix to a clinical 102-85 NBL victory against the Adelaide 36ers at the Adelaide Entertainment Centre.

The Phoenix pummelled the Sixers 28-14 in the second term on Thursday night to put the game out of the home side’s reach.

Mitch Creek (23 points) led the Phoenix’s charge, import guards Gary Browne (19 points, eight assists) and Will Cummings (18 points) did as they pleased, while Alan Williams (15 points, 13 rebounds) was influential in his first game of the season following a knee injury.

“We were trading baskets until that second five minutes of the second quarter when the guys got multiple stops in a row and kept scoring freely,” Phoenix coach Mike Kelly said.

“That was the difference right there, that five-minute patch.”

Advertisement

Import Trey Kell (21 points) top-scored for Adelaide, while Dejan Vasiljevic, signed by the 36ers from the Sydney Kings only 48 hours earlier, had 17 points on debut with his new club.

Vasiljevic was prolific early, firing 10 attempts and scoring 10 points in the first quarter.

At the other end, Browne racked up nine points and four assists in the opening period, which ended with scores tied at 28-28.

Vasiljevic’s third triple gave Adelaide a slender 40-39 lead, before the visitors rattled off the next 15 points and led 54-42 at half-time.

After Browne led Phoenix’s early charge, it was fellow imports Williams and Cummings who, in the second stanza, troubled the Sixers, who looked all at sea offensively and passive defensively.

After Phoenix’s lead ballooned to 17 points midway through the third, experienced 36ers reserves Sunday Dech and Jason Cadee helped the home side briefly trim the deficit to single digits.

Advertisement

But their hard work was undone when Creek, who helped himself to 13 points for the term, drained an uncontested three on the three-quarter-time buzzer to push Phoenix out to 77-65, before Williams and Browne continued on their merry way in the fourth.

“Disappointing – that’s what that was,” Sixers coach CJ Bruton said.

“Our effort left, our communication left, and everyone was a step too slow.”

The Phoenix rose to 3-3 with their second straight win, while Adelaide (1-5) remain anchored to the bottom of the ladder.

CJ claims Kings didn’t look after DJ

Adelaide coach CJ Bruton has accused Sydney of not looking after Dejan Vasiljevic, as the war of words between the 36ers and Kings over the sharpshooting guard escalated.

Vasiljevic, a two-time championship winner with Sydney, had originally been released from his Kings contract to chase his NBA dream.

Advertisement

But when the Washington Wizards waived him just before pre-season training camp, the 26-year-old decided to return to the NBL – signing with the Sixers on Tuesday, which didn’t please Sydney’s powerbrokers.

“We originally amended the contract in good faith and completed our roster with the understanding that ‘DJ’ (Vasiljevic) would play internationally this season,” Kings chief executive Chris Pongrass said.

“We are disappointed with how this has been handled and another NBL team’s role in this process.”

Australian basketball legend and Kings co-owner Andrew Bogut chimed in on X where he posted, in part, that Sydney had granted Vasiljevic a release “after he told us he wanted to ‘chase his NBA dream’, not his NBL dream with another club”.

Vasiljevic, fronting the press as a 36er for the first time on Wednesday, fired back at the Kings, saying “they made me look like a villain, they made Adelaide look like the villain”.

But on Thursday night, Bruton called for Sydney to “move on”.

Advertisement

“I’ve only got my perspective – you (Kings) had the chance to have him, you chose not to have him,” he said.

“He’s moved on. Move on.

“If you wanted to do something more, look after the kid.

“Talk to him, championship ceremony or whatever … but that’s on them (Sydney).

“That’s not on us or me.”

Vasiljevic scored 17 points in his Adelaide debut on Thursday, including 11 in a productive first quarter, but he couldn’t prevent the bottom-placed Sixers from suffering a 102-85 loss to South East Melbourne Phoenix.

Advertisement

“I thought his energy was good,” Bruton said of his prized recruit.

“With more time to settle in, the better he’ll become.”

© AAP