Deion Sanders once said, “If you look good, you feel good, and if you feel good, you play good." The Eagles looked good on Sunday night, donning Kelly Green jerseys and helmets for their matchup with the Dolphins.

And their play absolutely matched the look.

Philadelphia rolled to a 31-17 win over Miami on "Sunday Night Football," keeping the Dolphins' offense off the scoreboard in the second half and playing smart football every step of the way down the stretch.

The Dolphins quickly made up a 17-3 deficit, scoring a touchdown just before halftime and finding the end zone again in the third quarter when Jerome Baker intercepted a deflected pass from Jalen Hurts for a pick-six.

MORE: How Mike McDaniel overcame alcoholism to become rising NFL coach

The defining series of the game came right after the pick-six when Hurts shrugged off the turnover and led a surgical touchdown drive. After the Eagles' defense clamped down on Tagovailoa and the Dolphins, the offense pieced together a touchdown drive spanning nearly seven minutes to ice the game.

A.J. Brown overcame a slow start and shined for the Eagles, posting 137 yards and a touchdown in the win. Brown has now ripped off five consecutive games of at least 125 yards and seems to be on his way to a career-best season.

Hurts, Brown and the Eagles have higher goals than just individual success, and a win over one of the AFC's best teams is one way to make a statement. Philadelphia moves to 6-1, while the Dolphins miss a chance to open up a two-game lead in the AFC East and fall to 5-2 ahead of a matchup with the Patriots.

MORE: Latest injury updates on Dolphins WR Jaylen Waddle

The Sporting News tracked live scoring updates and highlights from "Sunday Night Football" between the Dolphins and Eagles. Check out all of the key moments you might have missed.

Dolphins vs. Eagles final score

1 2 3 4 F Dolphins 3 7 7 0 17 Eagles 3 14 7 7 31

Dolphins vs. Eagles results, highlights from 'Sunday Night Football'

(All times Eastern)

Final: Eagles 31, Dolphins 17

11:16 p.m. — And that'll do it. The Eagles finish strong and get back on track with an impressive win over the Dolphins.

11:12 p.m. — D'Andre Swift goes 22 yards for a first down, so the Eagles will simply kneel it the rest of the way.

11:09 p.m. — The Eagles take over on downs and will have the chance to just run out the clock on Miami.

11:07 p.m. — Tagovailoa is sacked on back-to-back plays, and this game has quickly spiraled for the Dolphins. It's 4th & 10.

11:00 p.m. TOUCHDOWN — Kenneth Gainwell hits the Dolphins with the spin move and likely ices this game! The Eagles lead 31-17 with just under five minutes remaining.

10:58 p.m. — The Eagles might've just hit the Dolphins with the dagger. Hurts goes downfield and hits A.J. Brown for a huge 42-yard gain. Philadelphia is knocking on the door after a long, long drive.

10:55 p.m. — The Brotherly Shove works AGAIN. It wasn't close, either. The Eagles are churning away, soaking up valuable time.

10:53 p.m. — Hurts' sneak is a success, as usual. The Eagles have a fresh set of downs.

10:52 p.m. — It's 4th & 1, but it looks like the Eagles will go for it deep in their own territory. It's a risk, even with the Brotherly Shove at their disposal.

10:47 p.m. INTERCEPTION — The Dolphins have been impressive on third down tonight, but not that time. Tagovailoa's pass to Mostert is picked off by Darius Slay, and Miami's defense suddenly has to meet the moment to keep this game within one possession.

10:44 p.m. — You think the Dolphins are happy to have Waddle back on the field? He rescues Miami's drive with a first down catch on 3rd & 12.

End of third quarter: Eagles 24, Dolphins 17

10:39 p.m. — Jaylen Waddle is back in the game and makes his presence felt with a first down catch to start the Dolphins' drive.

Eagles 24, Dolphins 17

10:35 p.m. TOUCHDOWN — What an answer from the Eagles! A.J. Brown breaks a tackle and goes right into the end zone to put the Eagles back in front. It's 24-17.

10:34 p.m. — Goedert comes through with a huge catch to extend the Eagles' drive and enter the red zone.

10:33 p.m. — The Eagles are getting chunks of yards early on this drive, including a 25-yard catch by DeVonta Smith as they barrel into Dolphins territory.

10:30 p.m. — Jevon Holland and David Long were both injured on the kickoff, resulting in a bit of a delay. They both were able to walk off.

Dolphins 17, Eagles 17

10:23 p.m. TOUCHDOWN — Watch out! Kader Kohou deflects a pass from Hurts and it's returned by Jerome Baker for a touchdown. That's a pick six, and the Dolphins have tied the game just like that after the no-call.

10:22 p.m. — This looks more obvious than a certain penalty on James Bradberry from February.

Looks like the refs missed another facemask, this one on James Bradberry pic.twitter.com/fYYeWnEWaGhttps://t.co/54oa1jfeHf — Dov Kleiman (@NFL_DovKleiman) October 23, 2023

10:20 p.m. — James Bradberry appears to get ahold of Cedrick Wilson's face mask on 4th & 3, but no flag flies. The Dolphins turn it over on downs.

10:19 p.m. — Tyreek Hill just can't hang onto what would've been a big-time catch. It's not a fumble, but it is a fourth down for the Dolphins. They'll go for it.

10:16 p.m. — Raheem Mostert is running wild. He rips off back-to-back runs of 21 and 15 yards, respectively, and the Dolphins are deep into Eagles territory just like that.

Raheem Mostert moves the chains in back to back plays pic.twitter.com/cKtaJouqeZ — DIE-HARD 🦅 Fans (@Eaglesfans9) October 23, 2023

10:11 p.m. — The Eagles manage only one first down on the drive, and the Dolphins have a chance to get pretty strong field position after Philadelphia's first punt of the night.

10:10 p.m. — Zach Sieler gets to Hurts and takes him down for a loss of three yards.

10:06 p.m. — The Eagles will be backed up deep in their own territory to start the next drive, but it's a big opportunity for Hurts and co. to stretch the lead back to two possessions.

10:05 p.m. — Miami will punt from just past midfield, after a drive that started with some promise.

10:04 p.m. — The Dolphins face 3rd & 18, largely the result of a holding penalty. Tagovailoa has already converted one of these tonight.

10:01 p.m. — Raheem Mostert has struggled to get going, but he takes the Dolphins into Eagles territory with a solid 7-yard gain.

10:00 p.m. — Hill picks up where he left off and goes 17 yards to give this Dolphins drive an early spark.

End of first half: Eagles 17, Dolphins 10

9:45 p.m. — Any hope the Eagles had of doing something before halftime ends with a Jaelan Phillips sack of Hurts. Philadelphia will go to halftime up 17-10.

9:43 p.m. — Hill is up to 65 yards on eight catches. No other Dolphins receiver has more than two catches, and Hill now has 879 yards on the season.

Eagles 17, Dolphins 10

9:39 p.m. TOUCHDOWN — Tagovailoa hits Hill in the end zone for a touchdown! Hill was facing double coverage but simply beat both defenders. Miami has the deficit back to one possession.

9:38 p.m. — Rookie Nolan Smith sacks Tagovailoa with 44 seconds remaining in the half.

9:37 p.m. — The Dolphins are down to the Eagles' 29-yard line after catches by Braxton Berrios and Tyreek Hill. They have a chance to score on back-to-back possessions, as they get the ball out of halftime.

9:33 p.m. TWO-MINUTE WARNING — Woah! Tagovailoa rescues a Dolphins drive that was headed in the wrong direction with a 29-yard pass to Cedrick Wilson. Great job by Wilson to keep both feet in after the grab.

9:30 p.m. — Jaylen Waddle walked back to the locker room and is questionable to return with a back injury. Major blow for the Dolphins.

Eagles 17, Dolphins 3

9:24 p.m. TOUCHDOWN — Guess what play the Eagles ran on 1st & Goal from the one? Hurts gets tush-pushed in for the touchdown to put Philadelphia up big.The @Eagles Brotherly Shove their way to a 2-possession lead



📺: #MIAvsPHI on NBC

📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/0rIJPFKW6L pic.twitter.com/Izpm8KQDCA

9:23 p.m. — What a fourth down play for the Eagles! Hurts comes under heavy pressure but gets away and finds A.J. Brown for what was initially called a touchdown. Instead, Philadelphia will be at the goal line looking to take a 17-3 lead.

9:22 p.m. — Hurts is very fortunate to see Smith (and not a Dolphins defender) come down with a pass after he was hit during a throw.

9:19 p.m. — DeVonta Smith with a nice catch on a dart from Hurts to take the Eagles into Miami territory. Aside from the one turnover, the Eagles are putting together long, sustained drives.

9:15 p.m. — Julio Jones is on the board with his first catch as an Eagle. It's a three-yard gain for the future Hall of Famer.

9:12 p.m. — The Eagles have the Dolphins' offense uncomfortable so far. Miami is punting after another Tagovailoa incompletion, and this will be a big moment for the Dolphins' defense.

Eagles 10, Dolphins 3

9:06 p.m. TOUCHDOWN — Happy National Tight Ends Day! Dallas Goedert with a great catch-and-run all the way into the end zone to give the Eagles the lead.

9:05 p.m. — Christian Wilkins gets called for roughing the passer, pushing the Eagles right to the edge of the red zone.

9:03 p.m. — On 4th & 1, you already know what the play is. Hurts gets two yards on a quarterback sneak to keep the Eagles' drive alive.

End of first quarter: Dolphins 3, Eagles 3

8:57 p.m. — DeVonta Smith has the Eagles into Dolphins territory after an eight-yard grab.

8:56 p.m. — Boston Scott with a really nice return to set up the Eagles at their own 39-yard line.

Dolphins 3, Eagles 3

8:52 p.m. FIELD GOAL — The Dolphins can't capitalize on the opportunity, so Jason Sanders ties the game with a field goal.

8:51 p.m. — A Tyreek Hill touchdown is erased by a holding penalty.

8:50 p.m. — The Eagles have lost yardage on three different plays in this quarter, which doesn't seem sustainable. It'll be 3rd & Goal from the 12.

8:48 p.m. — Jaylen Waddle goes airborne to bring down a Tagovailoa pass on third down and set up a 1st & Goal opportunity for Miami.

8:46 p.m. FUMBLE — Jaelan Phillips and Bradley Chubb get in there to knock the ball out of Hurts' hands! The Dolphins have an instant scoring opportunity just outside the red zone.

Bradley Chubb jars it loose and the Dolphins take over with great field position



📺: #MIAvsPHI on NBC

📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/0rIJPFKW6L pic.twitter.com/DDjWGEWofz — NFL (@NFL) October 23, 2023

8:44 p.m. — David Long is all over Hurts, quickly deflecting his second down pass. A key 3rd & 8 here for the Eagles.

8:40 p.m. — The Eagles quickly force a punt after Tagovailoa's pass on 3rd & 15 falls short. So, neither of these explosive offenses start with a touchdown.

8:39 p.m. — Haason Reddick swallows up Raheem Mostert for a five-yard loss to quickly set the Dolphins back.

8:38 p.m. — Tyreek Hill is on the board with a 15-yard catch on a Tagovailoa pass.

Eagles 3, Dolphins 0

8:33 p.m. FIELD GOAL — Elliott connects from 24 yards out, and the Eagles strike first despite their promising drive fizzling out.

8:32 p.m. — Eagles fans are unhappy after Philadelphia opts for three consecutive runs in the red zone. It'll be a field goal try for Jake Elliott.

8:30 p.m. — Jalen Hurts is celebrating National Tight Ends Day by hitting Dallas Goedert on back-to-back passes for a total of 45 yards. The Eagles are into the red zone.

Fitting that the first big play of the game goes to Dallas Goedert on #NationalTightEndsDay



📺: #MIAvsPHI on NBC

📱: Stream on #NFLPlus https://t.co/0rIJPFKW6L pic.twitter.com/DPfTTVQbnz — NFL (@NFL) October 23, 2023

8:28 p.m. — Swift has five touches already. No one else has seen the ball.

8:26 p.m. — The Eagles are riding D'Andre Swift early, as the running back is up to three carries through three snaps. He gets Philadelphia a first down.

8:23 p.m. — The Eagles will start the game with the ball, and we are underway!

8:18 p.m. — As many have pointed out, Tua Tagovailoa and Jalen Hurts were once teammates and competitors at Alabama. Both have something to prove tonight, considering Hurts hasn't looked like himself for much of this season.

8:10 p.m. — The Dolphins can open up a two-game AFC East lead on the Bills with a win tonight. Buffalo was upset by the Patriots earlier today.

8:03 p.m. — Lincoln Financial Field has a new look for Kelly Green day.

Lincoln Financial Field, with a new logo and wordmark for this stadium: pic.twitter.com/vHEm7uBDgi — Zach Berman (@ZBerm) October 22, 2023

7:55 p.m. — Oh yeah, Julio Jones is back in the NFL.

What a group 🤌 pic.twitter.com/fV9WgGOpRY — Philadelphia Eagles (@Eagles) October 22, 2023

7:41 p.m. — Believe it or not, Tyreek Hill has a chance to break 1,000 yards tonight. He would need 186, but with the way he's played this season, that at least seems to be within reach.

7:29 p.m. — Don't forget the Eagles will be back in Kelly Green tonight. This will be a fascinating uniform matchup.

7:20 p.m. — It's 55 degrees and dropping in Philadelphia. That's not unusual for the Eagles, but will Tua Tagovailoa be able to rise to the occasion in cooler weather?

What channel is Dolphins vs. Eagles on today?

Game: Dolphins vs. Eagles

Dolphins vs. Eagles Date: Sunday, Oct. 22

Sunday, Oct. 22 TV channel: NBC

NBC Live stream: Peacock | NBCSports.com | Fubo (U.S.) | DAZN (Canada)

Dolphins vs. Eagles can be watched on NBC, which has long held the broadcast rights to "Sunday Night Football."

Mike Tirico (play-by-play) and Cris Collinsworth (color analyst) will be on the call from Levi's Stadium while Melissa Stark will serve as the sideline reporter. The crew is in its second season together after Tirico replaced play-by-play legend Al Michaels in 2022 while Stark took over for Michele Tafoya.

Fans can also stream the game via Peacock or NBCSports.com with a subscription, along with Fubo, which offers a free trial.

Viewers in Canada can stream every NFL game via DAZN.

Dolphins vs. Eagles start time

Date: Sunday, Oct. 22

Sunday, Oct. 22 Start time: 8:20 p.m. ET

Sunday night's game between the Dolphins and Eagles is set to kick off at 8:20 p.m. ET from Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia, Penn.

The Eagles haven't beaten the Dolphins since 2011, when Miami's loss resulted in the firing of coach Tony Sparano the following day. The Dolphins got the better of Philadelphia in both 2015 and 2019, but none of those matchups carried the anticipation that this one does.