Dillon Danis has been going back and forth with the Paul family long before his upcoming fight against Logan Paul, scheduled for October 14th. At the moment, Danis is preparing hard for his Misfits contest, as he’s tried to get in the head of his opponent leading up to the bout. As a result, Danis has garnered over a million followers on X. ‘El Jefe’ has been trying to dig up the past relationships of Logan Paul’s fiancée, Nina Agdal, as a way to create turmoil in Paul’s mindset during the fight.

America’s Favorite Video Today

However, this beef was first started by Logan Paul’s younger brother, Jake Paul. He called out Danis on his Instagram story in 2020, by taking a hit at his rumored ex-girlfriend, Savannah Montano. So Danis’s target at Agdal could have a revenge angle that many didn’t know about. Even Logan addressed the topic of Montano and Jake during their first press conference. So, who is this girl? What’s the actual story here?

Who is Dillon Danis’ ex-girlfriend often linked with Jake Paul?

ADVERTISEMENT Article continues below this ad

Savannah Montano was quite a trending name back in 2020, and that was mostly because of her relationship with the Bellator MMA fighter, Dillon Danis. Montano is a successful Instagram model, with around 1.6 million followers on her social media. The couple turned a lot of heads during their relationship, sharing some NSFW steamy pictures and videos for their fans.

Despite their controversial relationship, Montano also gained some attention after Jake Paul used her to call out Dillon Danis for a fight. After knocking out the ex-NBA star, Nate Robinson, ‘The Problem Child’, was on the hunt to find his next opponent. At the time, the name that popped up the most was 2-0 Dillon Danis. So, when he shared the screenshot of the FaceTime with Danis’s ex-girlfriend, the fans started drawing connections.

Paul somehow found the model’s number and sent her a FaceTime request. Many started to believe that Montano was having an affair and cheating on her then-boyfriend Danis. Paul posted two stories. In the first one, he wrote, “Aye [Dillon Danis], come get your girl back.” And then in the second one, he took another hit at the fighter by writing, “Can’t wait to see you soon.” So this begs the question, is it true? Was Paul actually involved in an affair with Savannah Montano?

Did Jake Paul and Savannah Montano hook up?

This callout didn’t help much, as Jake Paul never could finalize his fight with Dillon Danis. Instead, he ended up taking the fight against the former Olympic MMA artist, Ben Askren in 2021. He again won the fight by a knockout, while many fans still thought that Danis was smart to not respond to the Youtuber-turned-boxer. Still, Paul tried his best to involve Montano in their non-existent tussle.

via Getty TAMPA, FLORIDA – DECEMBER 18: Jake Paul fights Tyron Woddley during a rematch of an eight-round cruiserweight bout at the Amalie Arena on December 18, 2021 in Tampa, Florida. (Photo by Mike Ehrmann/Getty Images)

Besides the Instagram Stories, Jake Paul also told TMZ, about the entanglement with Savannah Montano. He said, “Dillon, I know you’re watching this … Just remember you’re still a bitch and I hooked up with your girlfriend. Savannah, how you doing? What’s good?” However, Montano completely denied any relation with the Influencer boxer whatsoever. She responded to Paul’s stories through a video and gave her side of the story.

She said, “I’m dead confused at some of you guys going, ‘Oh, but why did you answer his call?’ As if I have his f**king number saved in my phone! It was literally a random number. You can literally see in the video, I’m like, ‘Who is this?’” So she denied the accusations of hooking up with Paul and even felt disgusted by the speculations.

However, her current relationship status is unknown. Even three years later, many followers are still not convinced about her breakup with Dillon Danis.

Dillon Danis and Savannah Montano breakup reality

As of now, it’s not completely clear whether the couple is still together or not. They haven’t made any claims of breakup and have been silent about their relationship with each other. The only things that have changed are Savannah’s Instagram feed. She has stopped posting pictures with Danis, which were quite prevalent back in 2020. Also, another thing that hints towards their breakup is Danis’s first press conference for the Logan Paul fight.

ADVERTISEMENT Article continues below this ad

During the fight, Logan Paul brought up the topic of Montano, when Danis pointedly mentioned their breakup. Paul said, “Yo you’ve been so salty ever since Savannah rejected your a** to go hook up with real athletes. You don’t gotta take that s**t out on me because my brother hooked up with your ex.” Danis scoffed at Maverick’s claim and clapped back, “At least I got rid of the sl*t, you’re marrying one.”

ADVERTISEMENT Article continues below this ad

So, this tells the fans that Danis is no longer together with Montano. Anyway, the fans could look out for her attendance at Danis’s first-ever boxing debut on October 14 at the AO Arena, Manchester. Although there were rumors about Danis pulling out, it seems the fight is still going to take place. So, her presence at Danis’s ringside may make things even more complicated. What are your thoughts about this? Are they still together? Tell us in the comments section.

Watch This Story: Dillon Danis’s Relationship with His Wife