This week might not matter for many fantasy football owners. Some have secured their spot in the postseason; others are well out of contention. However, for those in must-win situations, this week really matters. It's not the time to have a hole in your lineup at tight end, but if you do, we're here to help with our Week 14 fantasy TE PPR rankings.

Fortunately, there are several solid sleepers and streaming options despite two tough byes and some big injuries to notable TEs. It's always tough to know who to trust at this volatile position, so we break down which tight ends have higher floors for those favored to win comfortably and which have higher ceilings for those who need to really shoot for big points.

Let's get to it and check out the TE landscape for Week 14.

Who are the TEs on bye in Week 14?

Few would've expected Week 14's two-team bye to be as problematic as it is, but losing Logan Thomas and Trey McBride this late in the season could have some fantasy owners scrambling.

WEEK 14 PPR RANKINGS:

QBs | RBs | WRs | D/STs | Kickers

Fortunately, both the Commanders and Cardinals have above-average TE defenses, so taking those off the board only helps the position this week.

WEEK 14 STANDARD RANKINGS:

QBs | RBs | WRs | TEs | D/STs | Kickers

Who are the best fantasy TEs in Week 14?

As usual, Travis Kelce (vs. Bills in Week 14) tops our rankings, but T.J. Hockenson (@ Raiders), Sam LaPorta (@ Bears), David Njoku (vs. Jaguars), and Dalton Kincaid (@ Chiefs) aren't far behind. LaPorta and Njoku both have great matchups against defenses that entered last week in the top 10 in fantasy points per game (FPPG) allowed to TEs, and we know what Kelce, Hockenson, and Kincaid do every week in PPR formats.

George Kittle (vs. Seahawks) doesn't have a great matchup -- especially when you remember that he had just three catches for 19 yards against Seattle in Week 12 -- but he remains a must-start given his high ceiling in any matchup.

WEEK 14 FANTASY ADVICE:

Sleepers | Busts | Projections | Start-sit

Who are the best fantasy TE sleepers, pickups, & streamers in Week 14?

It can be tough to trust Taysom Hill (vs. Panthers) in full-point PPR leagues, but a matchup against the league's second-worst run defense gives him a high ceiling regardless of format. He's been more involved as a receiver this year, so he'll get a few catches to go along with the rushing stats, too. With Derek Carr (concussion) banged up, Hill might throw more this week, too.

Gerald Everett (vs. Broncos) and Isaiah Likely (vs. Rams) have matchups against bottom-six TE defenses, and Cole Kmet (vs. Lions), Jake Ferguson (vs. Eagles), and Kyle Pitts (vs. Buccaneers) also have above-average matchups that give them higher floors and higher ceilings than usual.

For those in deeper leagues, Tyler Conklin (vs. Texans), and Cade Otton (@ Falcons) both have matchups against defenses that entered last week in the top five for FPPG allowed to TEs. Brevin Jordan (@ Jets) and Tanner Hudson (vs. Colts) also have highly favorable matchups and can work as deep-league PPR plays, though Jordan's outlook is entirely dependent on whether Dalton Schultz (hamstring) is healthy.

WEEK 14 DFS:

DK lineup | FD lineup | Best values | Best stacks

Who are the biggest potential fantasy TE busts in Week 14?

Dallas Goedert (@ Cowboys) isn't a "must-start" if he returns from his forearm injury this week. That said, he's also not a "must-sit." He had three catches and 50 yards against Dallas in Week 9 before exiting early with the forearm injury, so he can clearly produce against this defense. Still, it's smart to check your other options before trusting Goedert.

The same goes for Evan Engram (@ Browns). He's generally more reliable in PPR leagues, but he's facing a Browns' defense that allows the fewest FPPG to TEs. Both Engram and Pat Freiermuth (vs. Patriots) are in tough spots against top-five TE defenses.

What are the biggest TE injuries in Week 14?

We already mentioned Goedert (forearm) and Schultz (hamstring), but another TE who could be back this week is Darren Waller (hamstring). The Giants really have no reason to bring back their star TE if they don't feel like he's 100 percent, but it's something to monitor throughout the week, as Waller (vs. Packers) always has a high ceiling as the Giants' de facto No. 1 receiver.

Tyler Higbee (neck) was banged up last week, and he's no sure thing to suit up this week against Baltimore. Even if he does, he's not a recommended play against the Ravens' top-10 TE defense.

We'll be updating these TE PPR rankings throughout the week, so check back for the latest player movement and analysis.

Fantasy TE PPR Rankings Week 14: Who to start, sit at tight end

Rankings based on full-point PPR formats

Rank Player

1 Travis Kelce, Chiefs vs. Bills

2 T.J. Hockenson, Vikings @ Raiders

3 Sam LaPorta, Lions @ Bears

4 David Njoku, Browns vs. Jaguars

5 Dalton Kincaid, Bills @ Chiefs

6 George Kittle, 49ers vs. Seahawks

7 Isaiah Likely, Ravens vs. Rams

8 Cole Kmet, Bears vs. Lions

9 Jake Ferguson, Cowboys vs. Eagles

10 Dallas Goedert, Eagles @ Cowboys

11 Kyle Pitts, Falcons vs. Buccaneers

12 Gerald Everett, Chargers vs. Broncos

13 Evan Engram, Jaguars @ Browns

14 Brevin Jordan, Texans @ Jets

15 Tyler Conklin, Jets vs. Texans

16 Cade Otton, Buccaneers @ Falcons

17 Tanner Hudson, Bengals vs. Colts

18 Pat Freiermuth, Steelers vs. Patriots

19 Tucker Kraft, Packers @ Giants

20 Chigoziem Okonkwo, Titans @ Dolphins

21 Dawson Knox, Bills @ Chiefs

22 Jonnu Smith, Falcons vs. Buccaneers

23 Juwan Johnson, Saints vs. Panthers

24 Michael Mayer, Raiders vs. Vikings

25 Hunter Henry, Patriots @ Steelers

26 Adam Trautman, Broncos @ Chargers

27 Mike Gesicki, Patriots @ Steelers

28 Daniel Bellinger, Giants vs. Packers

29 Ian Thomas, Panthers @ Saints

30 Noah Fant, Seahawks @ 49ers