Manchester United are yet to recover from their large number of long-term injuries.

Man United vs Fulham Live: Premier League LIVE – MUN vs FUL LIVE – Manchester United are travelling to Greater London for their 11th Premier League match of the season. Fulham will host the Red Devils in the hopes of finally winning against them for the first time since 2019. It doesn’t seem like they will get a better chance considering Man United’s horrible run of form. However, the Red Devils came away as winners in both of their last games on road. Hence, the job will not be easy for Fulham.

Also Read

Manchester United will have to look for a way to get back to winning after 2 major defeats. They were on a 3-match winning run in all competitions when they faced Man City in their last Premier League match. There was little hope of winning that match considering their form. The fears came true and they lost 3-0 in the Manchester derby. They had some hope in their next match in the EFL Cup round of 16 match against Newcastle United.

The boys in blue 🤩 pic.twitter.com/0awNdmkXtT — Manchester City (@ManCity) November 3, 2023

Especially since they defeated the Magpies last term in the final of the EFL Cup. However, the reigning Carabao Cup champions could not defend their title any longer. They lost by another 3-0 margin to Newcastle United. With 5 wins and 5 defeats in the domestic league, they are now sitting in 8th position in the table. It still seems that coach Erik Ten Hag has the backing of the management. However, he will still have to pull up his team from the doom as soon as possible.

Fulham are in a worse situation than the Red Devils. After a mixed set of results with 3 wins, 3 draws, and 4 defeats, they are sitting in 14th position in the league table. However, they are still unbeaten in their last two games in all competitions. They won their last match by a 3-1 margin against Ipswich Town in the EFL Cup round of 16. Before that, they drew 1-1 against Brighton in their last Premier League match. However, they will have a tough time holding onto the streak in this match.

Manchester United Team News

Man United have been fighting a battle to line up their best XI as players fall victim to one injury after another. Casemiro, who got injured during the international break, got back on the field against Newcastle United in the EFL Cup match. However, he was taken off at half-time with a new hamstring issue. He will probably remain sidelined for weeks.

Other than Casemiro, Tyrell Malacia and Amad Diallo are suffering from knee issues, Lisandro Martinez is nursing a foot injury, Jadon Sancho is out due to disciplinary issues, and Luke Shaw is yet to recover from a muscle problem. Adding to that, Victor Lindelof is suffering from a bug that could see him miss this weekend’s match.

On the other hand, Raphael Varane who missed last day’s match due to an illness of his own, could be back in this match. Aaron Wan-Bissaka was also able to participate in the last match coming on as a substitute. Hence, he should be able to make a comeback. Marcus Rashford, Rasmus Hojlund, and Bruno Fernandes all could see themselves in the starting lineup.

Fulham Team News

Fulham’s injury situation has not improved so far. Adama Traore is suffering from a thigh problem, Issa Diop is nursing a foot issue, Kenny Tete is out due to an unspecified injury, and Tosin Adarabioyo is suffering from a groin injury.

However, Tete, Adarabioyo, and Traore are on their way to being fully fit. They could at least make the squad for this weekend’s high-stake match against Man United. Yet, the coach’s biggest concern revolves around his No. 9 position. With his first goal in the EFL Cup match, Rodrigo Muniz proved that he can be a good pick for the role on a regular basis.

The coach hinted that he could choose Muniz over Raul Jimenez who is yet to score since he joined Fulham this summer. On the other hand, Antonee Robinson, Tim Team, and Bernd Leno will be joining the team again to help them hold the fort in the back.

Manchester United Premier League Form

L W L W W L

Manchester United Form in All Competitions

L W W W L L

Fulham Premier League Form

W D L W L D

Fulham Form in All Competitions

W L W L D W

Match Details

Match – Man United vs Fulham

Date – 4th November, 2023

Time – 6:00 PM IST

Live Telecast – Premier League’s rights are owned by the Star Sports Network. Hence the matches will be broadcast on various Star Sports channels. The fans will get to watch English commentary on Star Sports Select and apart from that regional fans will also get the opportunity to watch the match in their favorite language. Regional commentary in Bangla and Malayalam will be made available for key weekend matches on Star Sports 3 and Star Sports 1 Bangla.Live Streaming – The match will be live-streamed on Disney+ Hotstar VIP. The fans will have to subscribe to Hotstar’s VIP plan to stream the Premier League matches live. Indian Premier League fans can also stream the match live on Jio TV.

Live Streaming – The match will be live-streamed on Disney+ Hotstar VIP. The fans will have to subscribe to Hotstar’s VIP plan to stream the Premier League matches live. Indian Premier League fans can also stream the match live on Jio TV.