We’re coming up for air from our coverage of The Game Awards to loop our readers in on some of the best deals happening this weekend. If you’re looking to experience some of the winners from the 2023 Game Awards for yourself, you can find discounts on a variety of titles on Steam. Some other highlights you might want to check out include a sitewide sale on Blu-Rays from The Criterion Collection, and the Xbox Series X matching its Black Friday price on Walmart and Amazon.

As we do every weekend here at Polygon, we’ve rounded up a collection of our favorite deals from the worlds of gaming and entertainment, along with some of the best-selling products that have made a recent appearance on our site.

The best gaming deals this week

Steam is discounting many contenders from the 2023 Game Awards and winners from the past nine years. This is a fantastic opportunity to supplement your library with some of the biggest releases of 2023, like Diablo 4 and Starfield, but you can also find discounts on essential titles that you may have missed, like Valiant Hearts, Her Story, or Celeste. Below, we’ve highlighted some of the winners from the 2023 Game Awards, but we also featured a larger list of winners from previous years.

Cocoon is the latest title from a studio founded by Jeppe Carlsen, the person responsible for the unsettling narrative platformers Limbo and Inside. This psychedelic odyssey is a personal favorite amongst much of the Polygon staff and won Best Indie Game during the 2023 Game Awards.

The hyper-stylized, rhythm-based action game Hi-Fi Rush was nominated for a number of categories in the 2023 Game Awards and ultimately took home the prize for audio design, and with good reason. Hi-Fi Rush is a witty and wild game that features an excellent original soundtrack in addition to licensed songs from Nine Inch Nails, The Flaming Lips, and The Prodigy (just to name a few).

We’ve said it before, but once again, I’m kindly asking that nobody pay more than $350 for an Xbox Series X during the holidays. If you missed out on the chance to pick up the Diablo 4 Xbox Series X bundle for $349.99, Walmart and Amazon are currently offering the Xbox Series X as a standalone purchase for the same price, which is still a $150 discount off the standard price of the Microsoft console.

Related The best accessories for your Xbox Series X

It’s a bit of a bummer that this Xbox Series X deal lacks a pre-packaged game, but there are still plenty of sales floating around to add some excellent titles to your Xbox library without paying full price. For instance, Amazon is offering some modest discounts on $50 Xbox Gift Cards, allowing you to pick up as many as you’d like for $45 each. Target has also discounted three-month Game Pass Ultimate subscriptions to $44.99 (was $49.99), which allows you access a rotating library of excellent titles for the Xbox Series X like Hi-Fi Rush, Cocoon, Venba, Starfield, and more.

The 8BitDo Arcade Stick for Xbox Series X is still available at Woot for $74.99, the best price yet for the $119.99 controller. This massive gamepad is a must for fighting game fans, so whether you’ve recently picked up Street Fighter 6 or Mortal Kombat 1, or you’re looking forward to the launch of Tekken 8 in February, now is the perfect time to pick up your new weapon of choice.

8BitDo arcade stick for Xbox $75

$120

38% off Prices taken at time of publishing. Fighting sticks can be really pricey. Thankfully, this fighting stick for the Xbox and PC is a great yet affordable option for getting into fighting games. $75 at Woot

The top-selling stuff on Polygon this week

The best entertainment deals this week

If you’re a fan of The Legend of Vox Machina series on Prime Video, you can pick up a two-disc Limited Edition vinyl LP of the soundtrack for just $37.56 on Amazon, its lowest price to date. The soundtrack is packaged in a full-color gatefold sleeve and even contains exclusive tracks not featured in the series.

We recommend a lot of vinyl during our weekend posts, so it seems fitting that we should point you toward a solid record player. The Victrola Revolution Go record player is one of the more unique suggestions from our 2023 Holiday Gift Guide and is currently on sale for around $125 in a variety of striking colors. Normally $199.99, this portable record player is equipped with a convenient carrying strap, built-in speaker, and an on-board battery that can keep it running for up to 12 hours on a single charge.

The massive 6,187-piece Lego version of Din Djarin’s iconic ride from The Mandalorian is currently matching its Black Friday price on Amazon and is on sale for $419.99 (was $599.99). This is an ideal gift for any fan of the show, and is brimming with detail like a full-size cargo compartment complete with carbonite prisoner storage. In addition to minifigs of Mando and Grogu, you’ll also find a Lego version of Kuiil riding on his Blurrg (yes, that’s actually what its called).

Through Dec. 22, The Criterion Collection is offering some impressive discounts on some excellent selections from its catalog of 4K UHD Blu-Rays and box sets (including pre-orders). Many of the titles included in The Criterion Collection feature bespoke box art, making them excellent additions to any collection of physical media.

We’ve rounded up some of our favorite highlights to check out below, like Trainspotting, Time Bandits, The Godzilla Showa-Era Box Set, and Moonage Daydream. But if you’d like to see what else is on offer, you can head over to The Criterion Collection deals page to see the dozens of other titles you can add to your library.