Our take: If you’re a small business owner who flies with Delta regularly and wants to score a solid welcome bonus, consider the Delta SkyMiles® Gold Business American Express Card. This card has a welcome bonus of up to 75,000 miles and perks like free checked bags and priority boarding with a $0 intro annual fee for the first year (then $99).

Pros Free checked bag free on Delta flights

Generous welcome bonus of 75,000 miles

No foreign transaction fees Cons No lounge access

$99 annual fee ($0 intro fee for the first year)

To view rates and fees of the Delta SkyMiles® Gold Business American Express Card, see this page.

Delta SkyMiles Gold Business Card Highlights

Card Type: Airline

Welcome bonus: 75,000 Bonus Miles after you spend $6,000 in purchases on your new Card in your first 6 months

75,000 Bonus Miles after you spend $6,000 in purchases on your new Card in your first 6 months Annual fee: $0 intro annual fee for the first year (then $99)

$0 intro annual fee for the first year (then $99) Rewards: 2x miles on purchases made directly with Delta, 2x miles on U.S. purchases for advertising in select media, 2x miles on U.S. shipping purchases, 2x miles on dining at restaurants, 1x mile on every eligible dollar spent on other purchases

With the Delta SkyMiles® Gold Business American Express Card, cardholders who frequently fly with Delta can reduce travel costs and upgrade their travel experience. For $99 a year, cardholders receive benefits like priority boarding, the first checked bag benefit (and for guests), discounts on in-flight purchases, and baggage insurance. The card, however, doesn’t provide access to Delta Sky Club or Delta’s airport lounges.

The rewards structure on this card is decent, but it’s nothing to write home about—the card offers 2x miles on just a handful of categories like advertising, shipping, and dining.

A big benefit of the Delta SkyMiles Gold Business Card is the welcome bonus: 75,000 Bonus Miles after you spend $6,000 in purchases on your new Card in your first 6 months of card opening. And cardholders who use their miles to purchase flights get even more benefits—customers receive a 15% discount when they use miles to buy Delta flights on the Fly Delta app or the Delta website.

Delta SkyMiles Gold Business Card: Rewards

The Delta SkyMiles® Gold Business American Express Card provides higher rewards rates on select purchases that might be helpful to small business owners:

2x miles on purchases made directly with Delta

2x miles on U.S. purchases for advertising in select media

2x miles on U.S. shipping purchases

2x miles on dining at restaurants

1x mile on every eligible dollar spent on other purchases

New cardholders can receive a welcome bonus of 75,000 Bonus Miles after you spend $6,000 in purchases on your new Card in your first 6 months of card opening.

How to redeem Delta SkyMiles Gold Business Card miles

Purchase flights

Cardholders can use their miles (and their cash) to buy flights. When cardholders book flights through the Fly Delta app or Delta SkyMiles account with their cards, they can get a 15% discount called Takeoff15. Delta has more than 20 airline partners, so cardholders can book through airlines like Air France and Virgin Atlantic—though the 15% discount only applies to Delta and Delta Connection® flights.

This discount is a reason to hold onto the card long-term as you could save thousands of miles over the course of a year if you are a heavy Delta user. The best bargains on award flights are found through Delta SkyMiles Award Deals. Recent deals from Seattle (SEA) have included Chicago (ORD) for 8,000 miles or Auckland, New Zealand (AKL) for 64,000 one way in economy plus taxes and fees. Flash sales come and go so it’s a good idea to keep an eye on the site.

Other options include booking travel through Delta Vacations, using miles for upgrades or even buying champagne at the Delta Sky Club. That said, your best value will most likely be on award tickets.

Rates and fees

Annual fee: $0 intro annual fee for the first year (then $99)

$0 intro annual fee for the first year (then $99) Foreign transaction fee: None

None Purchase APR: 20.99%–29.99% variable

Additional benefits

Free first checked bag. Cardholders (and up to nine of their guests) can get the first checked bag for free. The standard bag fee is $30, so if you use this perk more than three times, you’ll save more in bag fees than the annual fee costs you.

Cardholders (and up to nine of their guests) can get the first checked bag for free. The standard bag fee is $30, so if you use this perk more than three times, you’ll save more in bag fees than the annual fee costs you. Main Cabin 1 Priority boarding. Cardholders (and up to nine guests on the reservation) can get priority boarding if they use their SkyMiles number when booking their Delta flights.

Cardholders (and up to nine guests on the reservation) can get priority boarding if they use their SkyMiles number when booking their Delta flights. Flight credit. If cardholders make eligible purchases totaling $10,000 or more in a year, they will receive a $100 Delta eCredit that can be used to purchase Delta flights.

If cardholders make eligible purchases totaling $10,000 or more in a year, they will receive a $100 Delta eCredit that can be used to purchase Delta flights. 20% back on in-flight purchases. Cardholders can get 20% back as a statement credit when they purchase eligible pre-purchased meals, in-flight food purchases, alcoholic beverages, and audio headsets on Delta flights.

Cardholders can get 20% back as a statement credit when they purchase eligible pre-purchased meals, in-flight food purchases, alcoholic beverages, and audio headsets on Delta flights. Baggage insurance. Cardholders who purchase plane, train, ship or bus ride tickets with their card are eligible for baggage insurance coverage—which kicks in if your baggage is stolen, lost, or damaged.

Cardholders who purchase plane, train, ship or bus ride tickets with their card are eligible for baggage insurance coverage—which kicks in if your baggage is stolen, lost, or damaged. Car Rental Loss and Damage Insurance. A cardholder can get damage and theft insurance on their car rental. Cardholders must use their card to book the rental and decline the collision damage waiver at the agency to receive it.

Credit cards similar to Delta SkyMiles Gold Business Card

Cardholders who aren’t loyal to Delta and want more flexible options for redeeming their rewards should consider the Chase Ink Business Preferred® Credit Card, which has a similar annual fee but a more generous welcome bonus and rewards structure.

Ink Business Preferred credit card vs. Delta SkyMiles Gold Business Card

The Chase Ink Business Preferred® Credit Card has an annual fee of $95 and a large welcome bonus of 100,000 points after spending $8,000 in the first three months of card opening.

With the Ink Business Preferred Card, customers receive 3x points per $1 (up to $150,000 combined) spent on shipping purchases, internet, cable, phone, and advertising with social media sites and search engines. Ultimate Rewards points can be transferred 1:1 to Virgin Atlantic or Flying Blue to book flights on Delta.

Is the Delta SkyMiles Gold Business Card right for you?

The Delta SkyMiles® Gold Business American Express Card is best for business owners who plan to fly with Delta frequently. Many of the card’s perks can be used specifically on Delta flights. It’s a good card to hold on to long-term for the perks and discounts even if your spending is best put on another business card.

Frequently asked questions

Is the Delta SkyMiles Gold Business American Express card worth it?

The $99 annual fee on the Delta SkyMiles Gold Business American Express card may be worth it for business owners who frequently travel with Delta. The card offers perks like a free checked bag that could easily cover the annual fee.

How much is the Delta Gold Business Card annual fee?

The Delta Gold Business card has a $99 annual fee, but there’s a $0 intro fee for the first year.

Is Delta SkyMiles Gold Card hard to get?

Cardholders should aim for a ‘good’ FICO credit score of 690 or better to qualify for the Delta SkyMiles Gold Card, though card issuers look at other factors like income, too.

Please note that card details are accurate as of the publish date, but are subject to change at any time at the discretion of the issuer. Please contact the card issuer to verify rates, fees, and benefits before applying.

Terms apply to American Express benefits and offers. Enrollment may be required for select American Express benefits and offers. Visit americanexpress.com to learn more.

Eligibility and Benefit level varies by Card. Terms, Conditions, and Limitations Apply. Please visit americanexpress.com/benefitsguide for more details. Underwritten by Amex Assurance Company.