On the small-cap front, Melbourne-based biotech Dimerix more than doubled its share price to 16¢ on Thursday after the company revealed it had inked an exclusive licensing deal to commercialise its treatment for a kidney disease called Focal Segmental Glomerulosclerosis in Europe, the UK, Switzerland, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. The laggards Meanwhile, energy companies (down 0.9 per cent) were among the weakest on the index as the oil price slumped overnight. Heavyweights Woodside and Santos shed 0.8 per cent and 0.4 per cent, respectively, and Ampol dropped 2.8 per cent. Miners were also weaker, with lithium prospector IGO (down 4 per cent) and Mineral Resources (down 2.9 per cent) among the biggest large-cap advancers. Iron ore giants Rio Tinto (down 1.5 per cent) and BHP (down 0.7 per cent) slipped after the iron ore price fell 1.1 per cent. Aristocrat Leisure (down 3.7 per cent) dragged the consumer discretionary sector (down 0.3 per cent) lower.

The lowdown IG Australia market analyst Tony Sycamore said the ASX received some relief from a rally on Wall Street following the release of cooler-than-expected US economic data which helped cap US bond yields. “Much has been written about the unrelenting rise in long-term US interest rates threatening prospects of a soft landing and raising doubts around equity market valuations,” he said. “This was stopped in its tracks overnight following the release of a considerably weaker employment, and ISM services purchasing managers index data topped off by a 5.6 per cent fall in the price of crude oil to below $85 per barrel.” Sycamore said the property sector and interest rate sensitive technology sector reclaimed some lost ground, while banks advanced on the back of the pullback in yields.

However, iron ore miners were shackled by concerns around the Chinese economy, Sycamore said, as the market braced for China’s consumer purchasing index report next week, which is expected to show inflation remaining morbid. The local rebound came after Wall Street rose after getting some relief from relaxing bond yields and falling oil prices. Loading The S&P 500 climbed 0.8 per cent to claw back more than half its sharp tumble from a day earlier, which sent it to a four-month low. The Dow Jones rose 0.4 per cent, a day after erasing the last of its gains for the year so far. The Nasdaq composite led the market with a gain of 1.4 per cent. Stocks have struggled under the weight of soaring Treasury yields in the bond market. High yields undercut stock prices by pulling investment dollars away from stocks and into bonds. They also crimp corporate profits by making borrowing more expensive.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury, which is the centrepiece of the bond market, pulled back from its highest level since 2007, down to 4.73 per cent from 4.80 per cent late on Tuesday. Shorter- and longer-term yields also eased to allow more oxygen for the stock market. Yields fell following a couple of reports indicating a slowing US economy. The first suggested hiring by employers outside the government was much weaker last month than expected. On Wall Street, that’s currently good news because a cooling job market could mean less upward pressure on inflation. That in turn could convince the Federal Reserve to take it easier on interest rates. After already raising its main interest rate to the highest level since 2001, the Fed has indicated it may keep its overnight rate higher next year than it had earlier expected. Treasury yields have correspondingly snapped higher as traders accept a new normal for markets of high rates for longer. The Fed is paying particular attention to the job market because too much strength there could drive wages for workers much higher, which it fears could keep inflation well above its target of 2 per cent.

Oil prices slumped overnight. Credit: AP Wednesday’s report from ADP suggested private employers added 89,000 jobs last month, a much sharper slowdown in hiring than the 140,000 that economists expected. The report doesn’t have a perfect track record in predicting what the more comprehensive jobs report from the US government will say. That will arrive on Friday. But “if Friday’s report also shows the labour market is cooling, stock investors may worry a little less about indefinitely higher interest rates,” said Mike Loewengart, head of model portfolio construction at Morgan Stanley Global Investment Office. A second report on the economy said growth in US services industries slowed in September by a touch more than economists expected.

It also offered some hints of sticky pressure on inflation, with prices paid by services companies rising last month at a similar rate as in August. Oil prices tumbled on Wednesday to take some heat off inflation. Benchmark US crude fell $US5.01 to settle at $US84.22 per barrel for its worst drop in just over a year. It’s been pulling back since, topping $US93 last week. Brent crude, the international standard, lost $US5.11 to $US85.81. Loading Prices for crude had been generally charging higher from $US70 during the summer, following announcements of cuts to production by some oil-producing countries. Wall Street is also absorbing the ouster of Kevin McCarthy as the speaker of the House of Representatives. The unprecedented move to remove a speaker from the position likely doesn’t change much in the short term, with funding for the US government set until November 17.

“That said, a leadership vacuum in the House raises the odds of a government shutdown when the current funding extension expires,” according to economists at Goldman Sachs. A shutdown would drag on the US economy, raising the risk of a recession, though financial markets have held up relatively well through past shutdowns. On Wall Street, big tech stocks helped to support the market after leading it lower a day earlier. They tend to move more sharply with expectations for rates because high-growth stocks are seen as some of the biggest victims of high yields. In markets abroad, stock indexes were mixed across much of Europe. Tweet of the day

Quote of the day “Last year, Christmas spending was bolstered by a record freedom spending phenomenon with delayed overseas travel, whereas this year shoppers are expected to be much more conservative with their budgets,” said Australian Retailers Association chief Paul Zahra as cost-of-living pressures put a lid on spending, with shoppers tipped to cut back on hospitality, home goods and clothes purchases. You may have missed Qantas’ freight division has suffered a catastrophic system failure that left dead bodies, live animals and perishable food unable to be collected from airports.