Bettors across the country can wager on which player they believe will win the coveted NBA Rookie of the Year award as part of NBA futures betting.

Like other NBA futures odds, this can be bet on before the start of the NBA regular season and throughout the year. The best NBA betting apps make it simple and convenient.

Below, you can check the latest NBA Rookie of the Year odds as posted at online sportsbooks and how to bet on them.

Current NBA ROTY odds

Check the current NBA ROTY odds below. Click on any odds to claim your bonus and get started.

Who are the NBA RoY odds favorites?

Victor Wembanyama: Coach Gregg Popovich's Spurs have a gem in Victor Wembanyama, a generational talent and a strong Rookie of the Year contender. Even with a young roster and potential load management, Wembanyama's undeniable impact is evident.

His elite defense, highlighted by his 7-foot-4 height and 8-foot wingspan, allows him to dominate where others can't. Offensively, his agility and skill set are unparalleled for his size. If he refines his shooting and continues to adapt to the Spurs' style, as seen in his impressive NBA preseason performance, he'll be a force to reckon with.

Scoot Henderson: The Portland Trail Blazers have restructured, placing Henderson as Damian Lillard's successor. Supported by talents such as Anfernee Simons and Jerami Grant, much of the Blazers' fortunes hinge on Henderson.

After a stellar season with the G League Ignite, expectations for his rookie year are soaring. Known for his strength and agility, and with a promising defense, Henderson is set to become a fan favorite.

Chet Holmgren: The Oklahoma City Thunder anticipate a strong season, largely due to Holmgren. Boasting a 7-foot frame and notable skills, Holmgren stands out as a Rookie of the Year contender, underpinned by impressive stats and team impact.

His wingspan and defensive prowess will challenge opponents. Offensively, he capitalizes on mismatches and has diverse scoring abilities, from the paint to the 3-point line. His underrated passing syncs well with OKC's pace and style.

How to bet on NBA Rookie of the Year

The first thing you need when preparing to bet on the NBA Rookie of the Year Award, or any other bet, is an account at an online sportsbook.

Signing up for a new betting account doesn’t take much time. Once you visit the online sportsbook you’re interested in, click a “sign up” or “register” button. This will take you to a form for your details. Fill that out and accept the sportsbook’s terms and conditions.

At that point, you’ll be able to claim your welcome bonus, which you’ll qualify for by following the link on this page from our site to the online sportsbook. If you need to enter a code to get the bonus, you’ll also find that code on our site.

We urge you to read the requirements for any available promotions and offers before accepting them so you’re aware of any restrictions before betting.

You can now place your initial deposit, which is easy at online betting sites thanks to various deposit and withdrawal options.

To bet on the NBA Rookie of the Year, navigate to the basketball section of the sportsbook website, select the NBA, and go to the futures tab.

You’ll find Rookie of the Year odds, NBA MVP odds, and more there. Select the bet you want to make, enter the amount you want to bet, and finalize your bet slip.

Ensure you’re using only legal online sportsbooks for any type of betting. Offshore sportsbooks advertise widely on the internet, but they are illegal and offer no protection against fraud and other criminal activities.

Best sportsbooks for NBA Rookie of the Year odds

Here are some of the best sports betting sites where you can bet on the next NBA Rookie of the Year.

DraftKings Sportsbook: DraftKings, known as a daily fantasy sports operator before becoming a renowned sportsbook, offers up a nice variety of futures bets, including the NBA Rookie of the Year award. The online sportsbook and betting app are intuitive and offer an easy-to-understand betting experience. Additionally, DraftKings fields a competitive welcome bonus for new players.

DraftKings, known as a daily fantasy sports operator before becoming a renowned sportsbook, offers up a nice variety of futures bets, including the NBA Rookie of the Year award. The online sportsbook and betting app are intuitive and offer an easy-to-understand betting experience. Additionally, DraftKings fields a competitive welcome bonus for new players. FanDuel Sportsbook: Also known for being in the DFS market, FanDuel has one of the largest followings in the country. It offers competitive odds for NBA ROTY and has one of the best sports betting apps. Look for a quality welcome bonus for new players and attractive promotions for existing customers.

Also known for being in the DFS market, FanDuel has one of the largest followings in the country. It offers competitive odds for NBA ROTY and has one of the best sports betting apps. Look for a quality welcome bonus for new players and attractive promotions for existing customers. BetMGM Sportsbook: As one of the most recognizable names in the gambling industry, BetMGM knows how to attract and keep customers with competitive odds for all bet types, including futures bets and the NBA Rookie of the Year. BetMGM offers many deposit and withdrawal options and 24/7 customer service, and generous sports betting bonuses and promotions.

As one of the most recognizable names in the gambling industry, BetMGM knows how to attract and keep customers with competitive odds for all bet types, including futures bets and the NBA Rookie of the Year. BetMGM offers many deposit and withdrawal options and 24/7 customer service, and generous sports betting bonuses and promotions. Caesars Sportsbook: Caesars knows its way around sports betting when you use its app and online sportsbook. It offers favorable odds for almost every bet type, including NBA ROTY betting, and offers a nice variety of deposit and withdrawal options. Additionally, Caesars has a competitive welcome bonus for new players and runs NBA betting promos for existing players.

When is the best time for NBA ROTY odds?

The earlier you bet on NBA ROTY, the better the odds. But you’ll be doing so without much information that could be key in making an educated decision.

Conversely, if you wait for the data you need for an informed bet, the odds will tighten up, and you will see less of a return on your wager.

When the lines are first released for NBA ROTY honors, the season hasn’t even started yet, so there are no statistics, trends, or player news. The pre-season odds are so favorable because even the oddsmakers don’t have the data to craft more specific lines.

Once the season has started and you get to see how the various rookies are performing, you can gather the relevant data. But sportsbooks are also gathering this information, and they begin to tighten the NBA Rookie of the Year lines in response.

So, while you can better guess which player will hoist the Wilt Chamberlain Trophy, the odds will be tighter, and your potential return on your wager will be reduced.

Pros and cons of betting early on the NBA Rookie of the Year:

Pros:

You have an opportunity to find better value.

The betting odds are fresh and haven't been adjusted.

Cons:

There is a much higher risk as a player's performance, health, and team dynamic can change throughout the season.

You’ll find limited information to make an informed bet.

Pros and cons of waiting to bet on the NBA Rookie of the Year:

Pros:

There is a lot more information available to make an informed bet.

You don’t risk betting on a player not remotely in contention.

Cons:

There is a reduced opportunity to find value.

The odds may not be as favorable.

Keep in mind that it’s always important to take into consideration your risk tolerance while you weigh the potential rewards. No matter when you decide to make your wager, always gather as much information as possible before risking your hard-earned money.

Who are the past NBA ROTY winners?

For context, here is a list of the National Basketball Association Rookie of the Year winners since 2010.

Season Player Position Team 2023 Paolo Banchero Forward Orlando Magic 2022 Scottie Barnes Forward Toronto Raptors 2021 LaMelo Ball Guard Charlotte Hornets 2020 Ja Morant Guard Memphis Grizzlies 2019 Luka Dončić Guard/Forward Dallas Mavericks 2018 Ben Simmons Forward/Guard Philadelphia 76ers 2017 Malcolm Brogdon Guard Milwaukee Bucks 2016 Karl-Anthony Towns Center Minnesota Timberwolves 2015 Andrew Wiggins Forward/Guard Minnesota Timberwolves 2014 Michael Carter-Williams Guard Philadelphia 76ers 2013 Damian Lillard Guard Portland Trail Blazers 2012 Kyrie Irving Guard Cleveland Cavaliers 2011 Blake Griffin Forward Los Angeles Clippers 2010 Tyreke Evans Guard/Forward Sacramento Kings

What other NBA futures can I bet on?

Rookie of the Year is not the only form of NBA futures betting. Legal online sportsbooks have a wide selection of NBA futures you can bet on, including:

In addition to futures bets, you can wager on many NBA bets during the regular season and postseason. NBA game lines (moneylines, point spreads, and totals) are the most popular, but you’ll also be able to bet on NBA team and player props, parlays, and more.

The NBA is the second-most popular odds market to bet on in the US, behind NFL betting odds. That means every online betting site always has a great selection of NBA odds.