The United States of America is home to several entertaining sports and leagues. However, football and basketball have resonated more deeply with the majority of the population than other offerings. Since their inception, the two sports have captured the imaginations of the fans and captivated them with their entertaining offerings—namely, the NFL and the NBA. The NBA and the NFL share a fierce rivalry because they stand out as the two preeminent professional sports leagues in the United States. While the NFL enjoys greater popularity within the United States, the NBA far outperforms its counterpart in global popularity and impact.

America’s Favorite Video Today

Both leagues have crafted their own festive traditions with the NFL’s Thanksgiving Day games and the NBA’s Christmas Day matchups. These special events have become cherished customs, captivating fans in their unique ways. Thanksgiving Day games are as intertwined with Thanksgiving as turkeys, while Christmas Day games have become as synonymous with Christmas as eggnog and presents. However, when comparing the two festive traditions, which one holds more significance, or which tradition has garnered greater popularity?

How do NBA’s Christmas Day games compare to NFL’s Thanksgiving Day games?

ADVERTISEMENT Article continues below this ad

Both traditions hold a special place in the hearts of fans, creating an annual spectacle that goes beyond the typical sporting event. The NBA’s Christmas Day games is a tradition which is even older than the NFL’s Super Bowl. The first Christmas Day game dates back to 1947, when the league featured three games as a festive treat for basketball fans. Since then, the NBA Christmas Day has only grown in stature and significance. Last season, Christmas Day games averaged 4.27 viewers across all platforms. The significance of this tradition can be evaluated by the fact that these games attract about 200% more viewers than any other regular season game.

USA Today via Reuters Credit: Kevin Jairaj-USA TODAY Sports

However, despite these impressive viewership numbers, the NFL’s Thanksgiving Day games eclipse them by a considerable margin. This season, NFL’s Thanksgiving Day games created history. Across all the three games, the NFL recorded an average viewership of 34.1 million. These figures surpassed last year’s record viewership of 33.6 million. Furthermore, the combined unduplicated audience for all three games reached 133 million, marking the second-highest total audience on Thanksgiving, surpassed only by last year’s numbers.

These figures paint a pretty one-sided picture, but the choice is much more nuanced. Comparing the NBA Christmas Day Games and NFL Thanksgiving Day Games comes down to personal preference. Each tradition holds its own significance, adding to the diverse fabric of American sports culture. Whether one prefers the slam dunks and three-pointers of the NBA or the hard-hitting action on the football field, both traditions offer a festive and entertaining way to celebrate holidays with family and friends.

Are the NFL’s new decisions threatening the NBA’s Christmas Day dominance?

The enduring success and importance of Christmas Day games suggest that this 77-year-old tradition will continue for the foreseeable future. However, the NFL’s recent decisions could threaten the NBA’s stronghold on Christmas. Traditionally, the NFL has avoided Christmas Day games that fall outside of their broadcasting window. However, last year the NFL averaged 22.1 million viewers on Christmas Day games, and 2023 could be even bigger.

via Reuters REUTERS/Kai Pfaffenbach |

The NFL has lined up a mouth-watering slate for Christmas. Superstars like Patrick Mahomes, Brock Purdy and Jalen Hurts are all set to take the field on Christmas. According to some estimations, the NFL’s total viewership during the festive period could outperform that of the NBA by almost 75 million viewers. This creates a huge dilemma for the NBA, as traditionally they have maintained a firm grip on Christmas.

However, it still remains to be seen whether the NFL pursues Christmas Day games in the future. The NFL’s top executives have stated that they won’t schedule games on Christmas if the holiday falls outside their regular broadcasting window. But, enough of the negative stuff, let’s shift our attention to the positive aspects.

ADVERTISEMENT Article continues below this ad

What does the NBA have in store for Christmas?

As Christmas arrives, so do the NBA’s Christmas Day games, a tradition that predates even the Super Bowl. This year’s Christmas Day slate is loaded, with games taking place in New York, Los Angeles and Miami. NBA superstars like LeBron, Steph, Giannis, Luka, Jokic, Durant, and many others are scheduled to take the court later tonight. The NBA strategically plans matchups featuring elite teams and players, as these games are broadcasted to over 200 countries and translated into more than 50 languages.

ADVERTISEMENT Article continues below this ad

The Milwaukee Bucks and the New York Knicks get the festive proceedings underway at Madison Square Garden. Furthermore, the Warriors are scheduled to face the reigning champions, the Denver Nuggets. Apart from these two intriguing matchups, the league has also scheduled Lakers vs Celtics, Heat vs Sixers, and Suns vs Mavs for Christmas. With only a few hours left until the tip-off, fans can kick back and enjoy the NBA with friends and family on the joyous occasion that is Christmas.

Watch this Story: Chris Paul annihilates Scott Foster after the controversial call, ‘Don’t use a tech to get your point across’