Al Nassr striker Cristiano Ronaldo looks set to be the top scorer in 2023 after his Boxing Day double against Al Ittihad.

The 38-year-old may have swapped Europe for the Middle East, but he has showed no signs of slowing down in Saudi Arabia.

8 Ronaldo has been in lethal form for club and country in 2023 Credit: Getty

Ronaldo linked up with Al Nassr in the winter transfer window after parting ways with Manchester United following his explosive interview with Piers Morgan.

Liverpool legend Jamie Carragher described the five-time Ballon d'Or winner's switch to the Gulf nation as a 'sad end' to his career, but Ronaldo continues to prove his doubters wrong.

But he isn't the only star that has been in great form, with players across Europe banging them in for fun.

The Portugal international Ronaldo has been battling with with Kylian Mbappe, Erling Haaland and Harry Kane for the title of the best goalscorer of 2023..

Here talkSPORT.com runs you through how Ronaldo compares to the top six highest scoring European based footballers this year...

7. Lautaro Martinez (Inter Milan) - 37 goals

All of Martinez's goals this year have come at club level for Inter Milan, with none coming on the international scene for Argentina.

With so many goals this campaign, it's no surprise that the Serie A giants are desperate to tie him down to a new deal.

He currently leads the Scudetto Golden Boot race - six more than closest rival Domenico Berardi.

8 Inter striker Martinez has carried on from last season by banging them in for fun Credit: Getty

6. Santiago Gimenez (Feyenoord/Mexico) - 39 goals

One of the most exciting strikers in world football, the 22-year-old has taken European football by storm.

Joining Dutch side Feyenoord in the summer of 2022, he fired Arne Slot's men to the Eredivisie championship with 15 goals.

With 20 goals this season along with two strikes for Mexico, it's clear to see why Arsenal, Tottenham and Chelsea have all been linked with a move.

8 Gimenez seems destined for a big move in the near future Credit: Getty

5. Romelu Lukaku (Roma/Belgium) - 40 goals

After reuniting with Jose Mourinho at Roma in the summer, Lukaku has found his goalscoring form once again.

The Belgian has been firing back in Serie A following another loan move from Chelsea, netting in almost all of his starts this season.

He has also found his shooting boots for his country, most notably scoring four in a 5-0 win over Azerbaijan in November.

Lukaku's career seems to have reignited and that has seen him close to claiming a place as one of the highest goalscorers this year.

8 Lukaku ended the Euro 2024 qualifying campaign as top scorer Credit: AFP

4. Erling Haaland (Manchester City/Norway) - 50 goals

No player in Premier League history has made more of an impact following their arrival than Haaland, who broke the goal record for a single season with 36 strikes last term.

He has already been firing in many top-flight goals this term - as well as being the joint-leading scorer from the Champions League group stages.

Just six out of his 50 goals in 2023 have been for his national side Norway, with Haaland helping the Citizens to a historic treble last campaign.

With two games left for City in 2023, Haaland has time to be the overall top scorer, though it remains to be seen if Pep Guardiola will play him against Everton and Sheffield United.

Haaland has missed City's last five games with a foot injury, but it is believed he could be in contention now to return to action.

8 Haaland is the leading goalscorer in the Premier League this season

2*. Kylian Mbappe (Paris Saint-Germain/France) - 52 goals

Paris Saint Germain's all-time record scorer with 233 goals, it's easy to forget that the ex-Monaco man is still just 24 years old.

He has added even more goals to his tally for Les Parisiens this term, while he has fired in ten times for the French national team.

Mbappe's overall tally of 46 goals for Les Bleus is just ten shy of Giroud's current record.

In the final year of his contract at Parc des Princes, Real Madrid are favourites to secure a free transfer next summer, but they face competition from Liverpool.

PSG have no games left to play in 2023 due to the French winter break, with Mbappe therefore unable to catch Ronaldo.

8 Mbappe has enjoyed a stunning 2023 having scored 52 goals for club and country Credit: AFP

2*. Harry Kane (Bayern Munich/Tottenham/England) - 52 goals

A stunning 2022/23 season saw Bayern splash out over £100m to sign the Spurs legend in August.

And Kane has repaid the Bundesliga club's faith having broken a number of records with his 25 goals so far this season.

The leading scorer [22 goals] in the German top-flight, the Three Lions skipper set a new Bundesliga record last month by finding the back of the net 17 times in his opening 11 outings.

Kane, who has scored nine goals for England in 2023, is also the first player to register a hat-trick in their first outing against Borussia Dortmund.

It should come as no surprise that he is also on course to score the most goals in a debut Bundesliga campaign as he hunts down Uwe Seeler's record of 30 for Hamburg in the 1963/64 season.

As well as that, Kane is on track to break Robert Lewandowski's record of 41 goals in a single season.

He's adding assists, too, as evidenced by his 'filthy' effort against Man United in the Champions League.

Like Mbappe, Kane cannot overtake Ronaldo's tally due to the German winter break.

8 Kane already has 25 goals for Bayern in all competitions Credit: Getty

1. Cristiano Ronaldo (Al Nassr/Portugal) - 53 goals

Ronaldo has chipped in with 43 goals for Al Nassr to prove he never left his shooting boots back in Europe.

He has even banged in ten times for Portugal, as he helped the Euro 2016 winners triumph in all ten of their Euro 2024 qualifying matches.

His half-century in 2023 is the eighth time in his career that he has scored at least 50 goals in a calendar year.

His two strikes in the 5-2 win against Karim Benzema's Al Ittihad saw him leapfrog above Kane and Mbappe.

And with Al Nassr still having one match left before 2024, he could add to his ever-growing tally.