In November, it will have been a year since the deeply unpopular Glazer family left Manchester United fans rejoicing by announcing they were open to offers for England’s most iconic football club.

Eleven months on and the saga that, at times has resembled an X-Factor style judges houses audition, may finally be coming to an end as British petrochemicals billionaire Sir Jim Ratcliffe closes in on a partial takeover.

5 Sir Jim Ratcliffe has an offer on the table for 25 per cent stake of Manchester United Credit: AFP

Ratcliffe’s £1.3billion offer for a 25 per stake in the club he has supported since childhood will be high on the agenda when United’s board of directors meet on Thursday, but how did we get to this point, what happens next and what could the future look like at Old Trafford?

TIMELINE OF THE TAKEOVER SAGA

It was in November 2022 as Qatar became the centre of the football universe during the controversial 2022 World Cup that the Glazers revealed they were looking to cash in all or at least some of their shares.

The bombshell announcement was seen by the majority of Manchester United fans as the beginning of the end of the divisive and destructive regime that began with a now-outlawed leveraged buyout in 2005 and saddled the club with debts that at one stage soared to as high as £1bn.

Brothers Joel and Avram, the two most hands-on of the six Glazer siblings who have overall control of United, had instructed the New York-based Raine banking group to handle the bidding process.

This was a move mainly influenced by the fact Raine had managed to broker a deal with Todd Boehly to commit to invest £4.5bn to take control of Chelsea, giving the Glazers grand ideas they could rake in as much as DOUBLE for a global sporting institution like United.

After several rounds of bidding, it quickly became clear the race for United was a straight shootout between Oldham-born Ratcliffe, who had previously offered £4bn to buy Chelsea, and Qatari Sheikh Jassim bin Al Thani, who also professed to being a lifelong Red Devils fan and set up the ’92 Foundation’ in tribute to the famous class of ’92 of David Beckham and company.

5 Ratcliffe already owns Nice in France and Lausanne in Switzerland Credit: AFP

Initially it was hoped the bidding process would be concluded in time for the summer transfer window, but the longer it dragged on, prompting several large-scale protests from United fans, the more apparent it became that Joel and Avram were reluctant sellers, as revealed by talkSPORT in March.

Sheikh Jassim’s public statement promising to restore United ‘to former glories’ was also seen as thinly-veiled swipe at the Glazers, which did not help his negotiating hand.

The Qatari banker’s patience finally snapped and his withdrawal from the bidding process at the end of last week has left the pathway clear for Ratcliffe to complete what he has always viewed as his dream purchase.

WHAT ARE THE NEXT STEPS FOR RATCLIFFE?

talkSPORT understands Ratcliffe, having originally wanted a much larger up-front stake, has an agreement in principle to buy a 25 per cent share in United.

5 Joel and Avram Glazer put the Red Devils up for sale in November 2022 Credit: AFP

5 United supporters are desperate to see the Glazers depart Old Trafford Credit: Twitter

The fact the Glazers will remain in situ has not gone down well with supporters, but this is seen as the first step to Ratcliffe eventually removing the Americans and taking overall control.

The exact timescale as to when that happens remains vague and how much it will cost Ratcliffe overall could depend on United’s sporting and commercial success in the coming seasons.

Thursday’s board meeting was pre-arranged and while it is expected that Ratcliffe’s proposal will discussed in detail, sources close to United have indicated to talkSPORT that it is far from guaranteed it will be put to a vote with several details still to be thrashed out.

As and when it does get as far as a vote, Ratcliffe can be confident it will be ratified seeing as half of the 12-strong board are members of the Glazer family and in the event of a split vote, Joel and Avram as co-chairmen will have the deciding say.

Even once the final deal is agreed, it is likely to take at least a couple of months for Ratcliffe to pass the Premier League’s owners and directors test, which has been made more stringent since Portsmouth became the first top-flight side to go into administration in 2010.

5 Ratcliffe, one of Britain's wealthiest men, previously tried to buy Chelsea

WHAT DOES THE FUTURE LOOK LIKE UNDER RATCLIFFE’S INEOS GROUP?

Ratcliffe is demanding an executive role and overall control of day-to-day football matters and plans to appoint his own sporting director, with former Tottenham and Southampton transfer guru Paul Mitchell one of the main names in the frame.

That raises doubts over the future of current sporting director John Murtough and chief executive Richard Arnold, although manager Erik ten Hag is believed to be on a solid footing despite United’s poor start to the season.

Expect Sir Dave Brailsford, the mastermind behind Team GB’s cycling success at the London 2012 Olympics and director of sport for Ratcliffe’s company INEOS, to have a prominent role in any reshuffle.

Ratcliffe also has ambitious plans to upgrade Old Trafford and turn it into a 90,000-seat stadium.

He wants the deal ratified in time for the January transfer window, however due to FFP concerns, there is no guarantees United will be able to spend big.

Despite the fact he turns 71 a day before the board meeting, it appears Ratcliffe’s plans centre around long-term stability and success rather than a short-term turnaround in United’s fortunes.