Looking for a new Apple device? There's no time better than now. Whether you're on the hunt for a new iPad, MacBook, Apple Watch, or just a new iPhone case, there are more Apple products on sale for Cyber Monday than you'll typically find at any other time of year. Here are some of our favorites. For more gadgets on sale, be sure to check out our Best Cyber Monday Deals roundup.

We test products year-round and handpicked these deals. The discounts we show are based on actual street prices at retailers in the past few months. Products that are sold out or no longer discounted as of publishing will be crossed out. We'll update this guide periodically.

Updated November 27: We've added a new deal on a 14-inch MacBook Pro (M3 Pro, 2023) and updated pricing and live deals as Cyber Monday comes to an end.

If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. This helps support our journalism. Learn more.

Apple's Cyber Monday Promotion

Apple notoriously doesn't run sales on its own storefront. However, it does usually throw in a gift card for Apple Store credit if you purchase select items. This year, now through November 27, you can get up to $200 in Apple Store credit to use later if you purchase certain items. For example, if you buy an iPhone 14 or iPhone SE, you can get up to $75 in store credit. Buy a MacBook Air and you'll get up to $200. You can find the full list here.

Separately, there's also a sale on Apple gift cards on Amazon. Each one has a unique corresponding coupon code that you can see on this page. For example, you can get a $100 Apple Gift Card and a free $15 Amazon credit with code APPLET5USAP. There are tons of cards to choose from. You can browse them all here.

Jump to a Topic: iPads, MacBooks, Apple Watches, Beats and AirPods, Chargers, Cases and Accessories.

iPad and Accessory Deals

For more info, check out our Best iPads guide for a breakdown of every iPad model.

iPad Photograph: Apple

This is the best iPad (8/10, WIRED Recommends) for most people in our Best iPads guide. It's not only affordable, but it also packs a ton of great features, including a True Tone display (that adjusts the color temperature to match the ambient lighting in your environment), a 12-megapixel rear camera with support for Center Stage (which keeps you in the frame on video calls), 64 gigabytes of storage on the base model, and a Touch ID-enabled home button. It's compatible with accessories like the first-generation Apple Pencil and Apple's Smart Keyboard.

This iPad (7/10, WIRED Review) isn't our top choice (we recommend the ninth-gen model over this one largely due to the price). But it does pack a few notable changes. With no Home button and slimmer bezels around the screen, it has a modern design. There's an upgraded rear camera and the selfie camera has moved to the center of the iPad for video calls. Under the hood is Apple's A14 Bionic chip (the same that's in the iPhone 12), so it's more powerful than the last-gen model. It was on sale for the same price last Cyber Monday.

iPad Air Photograph: Apple

If you're looking for an iPad that's a bit more powerful than the ninth-gen model, we recommend the iPad Air (8/10, WIRED Recommends). It comes equipped with a 10.9-inch LCD screen, slim bezels, a USB-C port Touch ID built into the top power button, and the same M1 processor as the 2020 MacBook Air. It packs support for the Smart Keyboard Cover, Magic Keyboard Cover, along with the second-generation and USB-C Apple Pencil. It's worth mentioning Apple might be launching a new version next year, but the M1-powered iPad Air is still a great choice.

The iPad Mini (8/10, WIRED Recommends) is our favorite tablet for travel. It's small enough to slip into my tote bag and fits perfectly on an airplane tray table. The 8.3-inch display is great for reading ebooks, watching movies, sketching, and taking notes (it's compatible with the second-generation and USB-C Apple Pencils). Powered by the A15 Bionic processor (the same one found in the iPhone 13), it can easily handle taxing apps and games. As with the iPad Air, Apple is rumored to be launching a next-gen version next year with a faster processor, but this is still a solid tablet if you don't need the latest and greatest.

We've used this hub with iPads, but it's also great for MacBooks. Plug it in via the USB-C port on your laptop and you'll have access to another USB-C port for passthrough charging, a USB-A port, an HDMI output, and a headphone jack. It's also fairly compact and thin, so it won't add too much bulk to your laptop. It dipped to $40 back in August, but we still think this is a good deal.

Apple Pencil Photograph: Apple

The first-gen Apple Pencil has been around for a while now, but it still functions well. It packs features like pressure sensitivity (the lines get thicker as you press down harder on the screen), tilt sensitivity (for shading), and handwriting support within search fields and apps (like Notes). It's compatible with the iPad (6th gen and later), iPad Air (3rd gen), iPad Mini (5th gen), iPad Pro 12.9-inch (1st and 2nd gen), iPad Pro 10.5-inch, and iPad Pro 9.7-inch. It dips to this price often, but we still think it's a good deal.

This is the most feature-packed stylus Apple has to offer. It's compatible with the iPad Air (4th gen and later), iPad Mini (6th gen), iPad Pro 11-inch (1st gen and later), and the 12.9-inch (3rd gen and later). As with the first-gen model, it comes with pressure sensitivity, tilt sensitivity, and handwriting support, plus wireless pairing and wireless charging (it'll charge when magnetically attached to the top edge of supported iPads). There's a double-tap feature too, which lets you switch between tools quickly by tapping on the Apple Pencil twice. It hits this low often, but it's a solid discount if you don't want to pay full price.

This stand often goes on sale during the holidays, but it's still a good deal. This tablet stand is included in several WIRED guides, including the Best iPad Accessories and the Best Work-from-Home Gear. It's portable, lightweight, and easy to use.

This adapter dongle has a 60-watt USB-C port, USB-A, MicroSD slot, SD card slot, 3.5-mm audio, and 4K 60-Hz HDMI, and it’s sleek and compact. One of the nice things about Hyper’s Apple peripherals is that they’re designed to blend in with your Apple devices, so this dongle comes in a space gray metal enclosure with rounded edges that doesn’t look out of place or stick out like a sore thumb when plugged into your iPad. Writer Jaina Grey has had one of these for years and despite frequently losing (and finding) it, it’s an everyday carry item for her and really helps turn your iPad into a portable workstation.

Jump to a Topic: iPads, MacBooks, Apple Watches, Beats and AirPods, Chargers, Cases and Accessories.

MacBook and Accessory Deals

Read our Best MacBook guide for more.

MacBook Pro Photograph: Apple

It's been less than a month since Apple released this MacBook Pro and it's already on sale. This M3 version replaces the 13-inch MacBook Pro, which Apple no longer sells through its stores. It packs the same mini LED screen, 120-Hz refresh rate, brighter display, and 1080p webcam as the high-end versions. You'll also get an HDMI, two USB-C ports with Thunderbolt 4, an SD card slot, a high-impedance headphone jack, and a MagSafe charging port. We recommend the M3 for anyone who wants some of the Pro features but doesn't want to drop almost $2,000 to get it.

This MacBook Pro (9/10, WIRED Recommends) is less than a year old, but we only recommend it if you can find it for under $1,800. It packs all the same features as the latest version and the M2 Pro is more than capable of handling graphically demanding and intensive tasks. This is also the lowest price we've tracked for this specific configuration.

This M3 Pro MacBook Pro is similar to the other model that's on sale. It just has a larger screen, a more powerful CPU, and slightly better graphics. Apple's brand-new M3 chips are available in three different MacBook tiers—the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max (9/10, WIRED Recommends). They're all included in our guide to the Best Laptops.

Apple's brand-new M3 chips are available in three different MacBook tiers—the M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max (9/10, WIRED Recommends). They're all included in our guide to the Best Laptops. The M3 Pro falls in the middle as far as processing power and speed goes, but it's still blazing fast. We recommend that you opt for the Pro if you’re a serious productivity user or content creator. This deal matches the best price we've seen so far.

MacBook Air Photograph: Apple

The MacBook Air (7/10, WIRED Recommends) packs a modern design complete with a MagSafe connector so the laptop won't fly off if you accidentally trip on the cable. Thanks to the M2 chip, it also delivers plenty of power for everyday tasks, solid battery life, and a 1080p webcam. It's dipped lower to $899 in the past, and it hits this price often, but we still think this is a solid deal. However, if you want the latest version, it's worth noting Apple is rumored to be launching an M3-powered version of the 13-inch and 15-inch MacBook Air next year. Keep in mind that this model drops to this sale price relatively often.

If you want a bigger screen, the 15-inch MacBook Air (8/10, WIRED Recommends) is the first large-screen option within the Air lineup. It packs all the same features as the 13-inch version including a redesigned chassis and 1080p webcam. The M2 also delivers excellent performance and solid battery life (with about 10 hours of use). For the smoothest experience, we recommend opting for 16 gigabytes of RAM if it's in your budget. It's also on sale for $1,449 ($250 off).

The M1-powered MacBook Air (9/10, WIRED Recommends) came out in 2020, but it's still one of the most powerful laptops you can buy for this price. It remains our favorite budget MacBook to recommend. You'll get great performance and battery life (it'll easily last a full workday), an improved keyboard, and a lightweight chassis that's great for travel. It's worth mentioning, however, that it frequently goes on sale for this price.

Mac Mini Photograph: Apple

The Mac Mini (9/10, WIRED Recommends) is a powerful, compact desktop. All you need to do is plug it into a monitor, pair it with your keyboard and mouse, and you're good to go. It doesn't pack as many ports as the version with the M2 Pro, but you'll still get two Thunderbolt 4 USB-C ports, two USB-A, an HDMI, a 10-gigabit Ethernet connection, and a 3.5-mm headphone jack. It's dipped this low a few times before, but it's still a great deal.

This is our favorite external keyboard in our Best MacBook Accessories guide, especially if you're a fan of the Magic Keyboard on your MacBook and are looking to fully replicate your setup. This one comes with a Touch ID button, which you can use to log in, authenticate for purchases, and download apps. It also has the same function row keys as the M-series MacBooks, including playback buttons, a Mission Control Key, and a dedicated Do Not Disturb button.

With the ability to flex the stand up to 22 inches high, you can adjust this laptop stand depending on your setup—whether you’re using an external monitor or working solely off a MacBook. It’s also super compact and portable. Our only complaint is that, while you can adjust the stand's angle up to 45 degrees, it’s too wobbly to type on if you're using the laptop's keyboard.

This is both an affordable and well-built monitor. WIRED reviews editor Julian Chokkattu has used it for years now and it's served him well. While the price often dips under $100, this is a few dollars lower than we've tracked.

Baggu Puffy Laptop Sleeve Photograph: Baggu

You'll see the discount at checkout. The 16-inch version Baggu Laptop Sleeve in Sherbert Cherry looks just as cute in person as it does online. The puffiness provides plenty of protection, and the Velcro closure is strong enough you don’t have to worry the laptop will slide out. We tested it with the 15-inch MacBook Air, which left space to squeeze a keyboard and mouse into the sleeve as well. There's also a 13-inch/14-inch version for those who have smaller MacBooks or want a sleeve for their iPads.

Speck’s Smartshell case has the proper cutouts for ports and rubberized feet to keep your machine in place. You can throw it in your backpack, tote, or duffle bag without worrying about damaging your machine. We tested it with the 14-inch MacBook Pro but it’s also available for a wide range of MacBook models. It’s worth noting, that the hardshell isn’t scratch-resistant (despite Speck’s claims)—we’ve noticed a few scrapes on ours here and there, but it’s not too noticeable.

This keyboard is a runner-up in our Best MacBook Accessories guide. It mimics the MacBook keyboard with a Do Not Disturb key, and the ability to program the function row key with Apple's own apps like Final Cut Pro, Photos, Safari, and more, using the Logi Options+ app—in addition to other Mac-specific shortcuts. It's only available with Tactile Quiet switches, but these are ideal if you typically work around other people and don’t want to disturb them.

This microfiber mat will keep your desk looking nice and clean. It also doubles as a giant mousepad. It only comes in black, but it's a great option if you're looking for a desk mat that's minimalist and affordable.

Incase Hardshell Case Dots Photograph: Incase

This is currently our favorite MacBook case. We tested it with the 16-inch MacBook Pro (2021), but it’s available for a few MacBook models. It has rubberized feet that prevent it from sliding, precise cutouts for all ports, and ventilation to keep the MacBook from overheating.

The Das Keyboard MacTigr (9/10, WIRED Recommends) is expensive, but it’s great for those in the Apple ecosystem with a dedicated Mac layout. It also has cherry MX Red switches (that don’t get too loud), a two-port USB-C hub, and a high-quality all-metal build.

Photograph: Keychron

This is WIRED reviews editor Julian Chokkattu's current daily keyboard. You can use it wired or wirelessly via Bluetooth and it comes in several colors and switches to pick from (it’s also RGB-backlit). The red switches aren’t very loud but are still clicky, and there’s a great knob for volume control. It’s hot-swappable too, so you can change the switches whenever you’d like.

If you prefer low-profile keys, the K3 Pro is a solid choice. The keys have a tactile click, RGB lighting, and you’ll get around four to five days of battery life (with the ability to charge it via the USB-C charging port). You’ll also get support for Via too, if you want additional software customization.

This is WIRED reviews editor Julian Chokkattu's favorite portable monitor. It's a great second screen that doesn't take up any desk space, but it does require sticking adhesive magnets onto your laptop. It's best suited for 13- to 14-inch laptops and is best for apps like Slack rather than anything that needs crisp colors. It drops to this price often, but is still a good deal.

Apple Watch Deals

Read our Best Apple Watch guide for an overview of the company's smartwatches.

Apple Watch Series 9 Photograph: Apple

The Series 9 (7/10, WIRED Recommends) is the latest Apple Watch. If you're looking to upgrade, it offers faster performance, improved battery life, and a brighter display. There's also a new Double Tap feature that will trigger functions like playing music or hanging up a call by tapping your index finger and thumb. With the second-gen ultra-wideband chip, you can precision-locate your iPhone and AirPods too.

If you don't need all the in-depth capabilities that come with the Apple Watch Series 9, the second-generation Apple Watch SE is a great alternative. It still tracks crucial health and fitness features, and with the S8 chip, you'll also get Crash Detection and the redesigned Compass app. It has support for WatchOS 10 too, so you'll have access to the latest software updates.

The second-gen Apple Watch Ultra (8/10, WIRED Recommends) packs a brighter 3,000-nit display, the latest S9 chip, and the new ultra-wideband chip for precision-locating your phone. You still get the useful Action button, the three-mic array, and the precise GPS so you can find your way home. It's the Apple Watch with the best battery life thanks to its gigantic size.

Jump to a Topic: iPads, MacBooks, Apple Watches, Beats and AirPods, Chargers, Cases and Accessories.

Beats and AirPods Deals

Read our Best Wireless Headphones and Best Wireless Earbuds guides for more.

Powerbeats Pro Photograph: Beats

The Powerbeats Pro (8/10, WIRED Recommends) are older (they came out in 2019), but they're still our top pick for earbuds with the most secure fit—making these a great option to workout with. They have an IPX4 water-resistance rating too, which means they'll stay protected from sweat. These buds deliver excellent sound quality and pack nine hours of battery life (with an extra 18 hours in the case). Many of the features won't work with an Android phone, but the core features will.

The Beats Studio Pro Wireless Headphones (7/10, WIRED Review) pack excellent noise canceling, good sound quality, and great wireless range. They also offer a stable fit and compact design. They are missing a few key features though, including multi-band EQ and sensors for auto-pause. But improved sound quality and active noise canceling, as well as a few neat features for both Apple and Android devices, make these a good option—especially on sale. They're $10 cheaper than they were on Prime Day, making this the lowest price we've tracked.

The Beats Fit Pro (9/10, WIRED Recommends) deliver great sound and a comfortable fit. With Apple's proprietary H1 chip, they work like AirPods when used with an iPhone. But they also work great with Android, complete with an app that allows you to customize the controls and perform a fit test. These have dipped as low as $159 in the past, but this is still a good discount.

AirPods Pro Photograph: Apple

Apple just launched these AirPods (9/10, WIRED Recommends) back in September, and they're already on sale. They're identical to the old pair on the outside but pack some internal upgrades. In addition to slightly improved sound, there's also a new Conversation Awareness mode (that turns the music down and boosts Transparency mode so you can hear someone talking to you).

Jump to a Topic: iPads, MacBooks, Apple Watches, Beats and AirPods, Chargers, Cases and Accessories.

Apple Charger Deals

For more options, check out our Best Apple 3-in-1 Wireless Chargers and Best MagSafe Power Banks guides.

Anker MagGo 637 Photograph: Anker

Simply stick your iPhone to this cute little orb and it'll start charging. Flip over to the back, and you'll find two USB-A ports, two USB-C ports, and three AC outlets. It's a compact and tidy charger, and our unit has been going strong for more than two years. It fluctuates in price very often, and it's hit as low as $60 in the past, but we still think this is a good deal.

This power bank is one of our favorites if you're looking for an upgrade. It has an absolutely gargantuan 24,000-mAh capacity, and it can be charged up in an hour. It can output up to 140W, making it powerful enough to charge laptops and tablets, as well as charging your phone super quick.

This is a great charger if you travel often with an iPhone and Apple Watch. Instead of packing two separate chargers, the Duo offers the luxury of both all within a compact, foldable form factor. You can use it to charge your AirPods (as long as it comes with a wireless charging case) and other Qi-certified devices too.

Photograph: Zendure

The Zendure SuperTank Pro is the largest portable battery you can get away with taking onto an airplane. Which is why it's our favorite for air travel. With a 26,800-mAh capacity, four USB ports, and up to 100 watts in or out, it's the only portable power bank you'll need for every device on even extremely long flights. Plus it kinda looks like a mini carry-on suitcase, that's neat. Just be sure to click the coupon button to get the full deal.

This is a great power bank if you don't want to carry a cable around. It comes complete with a built-in rotating USB-C or Lightning connector (MFi certified) that slots into the bottom of your phone. It also packs a 5,000-mAh capacity and a USB-C port for recharging it (complete with a short cable). We don't recommend it if you have a thick case on your phone, though.

The best 2-in-1 stand in our Best Apple 3-in-1 Wireless Chargers guide has a MagSafe spot to charge your iPhone at top speed (up to 15 watts) and a recessed spot below for your AirPods case. It holds your iPhone in portrait or landscape orientation, which is great for StandBy. It's not a huge discount, but we've never seen it cheaper.

Belkin 3-in-1 Wireless Charger Photograph: Belkin

This is our top charger in our Best Apple 3-in-1 Wireless Chargers guide. With a T-shaped design that suspends two of your devices midair, it's compact enough that it won't take up too much space. You can use it to charge your iPhone (at the fastest 15-watt charging speed Apple allows), fast-charge the Apple Watch Series 7/8/9/Ultra, and use the base to power up your AirPods Pro (or AirPods with a wireless charging case) simultaneously all from a single outlet. It dipped as low as $100 back in August, but this is still a great deal.

We like Anker's chargers and its Prime range employs GaN technology to shrink the size down. This 67-watt charger has fold-out prongs and offers two USB-C ports and one USB-A. It supports fast charging for iPhones (in addition to Pixel phones and Samsung Galaxy phones) but can also charge a MacBook.

Photograph: Satechi

This handy charger has enough power to juice up two MacBook Pro models simultaneously. But it's also great if you have a lot of devices around your desk that constantly need to be charged. It has a little stand to prop it up, a short cord that goes out to an outlet, and four USB-C ports that output 100 watts each. This is the lowest price we've tracked.

Click the coupon button to see the discount at checkout. We recommend this Baseus charger if you're looking for a high-capacity option. With a 10,000-mAh capacity, WIRED contributor Simon Hill says it charged his iPhone 14 Pro once and then delivered an additional 64 percent the second time before tapping out. It comes with a USB-C cable too. The 6,000-mAh version is also on sale for $30 ($20 off). These deals are only applicable to Amazon Prime members.

Apple 35-Watt Dual USB-C Port Power Adapter Photograph: Apple

If you tend to forget to pack chargers for your devices, Apple's dual USB-C port power adapter is an essential accessory. With two USB-C ports, you can use it to recharge both your MacBook and iPhone simultaneously. Rated at 35 watts, it's also powerful enough to recharge an iPhone 15 Pro Max or iPad Pro.

This is one of our favorite MagSafe wireless chargers. It delivers the maximum 15-watt charging speed possible, sits securely on your desk, and can charge an Apple Watch too. It doesn't come with a power adapter, but it does include a USB-C-to-USB-C cable.

If you prefer a mount on your dash or windshield and have an iPhone 12 or later, iOttie's Velox Pro Magnetic Wireless Cooling Charger is a great option. The suction cup attaches to a windshield or dashboard pad (and proved secure in our testing) and the telescopic arm delivers a wide range of movement for the ideal position. It only maxes out at 7.5 watts for charging, but the USB-C charging cable can be removed when the iPhone is fully charged. There's also a built-in fan that helps keep the temperature down when it's hot out.

Courant Catch:2 Photograph: Courant

This is a great wireless charger if you're looking for a stylish option to match your interior decor. The Belgian linen-wrapped surface comes in a variety of muted tones including camel, charcoal, forest, and natural. It can charge two devices simultaneously, but you do have to be precise when placing your phone on it. There are LED lights that show when it's charging and the rubber feet prevent the charging pad from shifting around.

If you need a charger for just your iPhone and AirPods, this is our favorite 2-in-1 stand. It has a MagSafe spot to charge your iPhone at top speed (up to 15 watts) and a spot below for your AirPods. It holds your iPhone in portrait or landscape orientation too, which is great for StandBy mode. It's not a huge discount, but this is the lowest price we've seen.

This charger packs two USB-C ports, one of which can output 65 watts when used alone. If you plug two devices in, the top will deliver 45 watts and the bottom can do 20 watts. It also folds up and looks super sleek.

Satechi Duo Wireless Charger Stand and Power Bank Photograph: Satechi

Click the coupon button to see the full discount at checkout. The Satechi Duo combines the convenience of wireless charging with the portability of a power bank. It has a 10,000-mAh capacity (complete with LEDs to show you how much juice you have left) and can wirelessly charge both your phone and a wireless earbuds case (as long as it's Qi-certified). There's also a USB-C port to power up a third device. The only gripe we have is that it's slow—delivering 10 watts of wireless charging power for phones (7.5 watts for iPhones), 5 watts for earbuds, and 10 watts via the USB-C port.

This travel kit from ESR works well if you want something that can prop your iPhone in portrait or landscape orientation. It can also display your Apple Watch in Nightstand mode, so you can peek and see how long before you must get out of bed. The main body folds open with a MagSafe charging pad for your iPhone and a slot behind for your AirPods. Unfortunately, it doesn't support fast charging and it's capped at 7.5 watts and 5 watts for the iPhone and Apple Watch, respectively. But it's a good, affordable charger. It dipped lower to $40 back in July, but this is still a solid deal.

Satechi's four-port hub is a little too large, considering the number of ports you get, but there's a good reason for that. Pop off the aluminum cover and you'll find a slot for an M.2 SATA solid-state storage drive slot. That means access to an external SSD, along with two USB-A jacks, one 100-watt USB-C pass-through charging port, and a 4K HDMI at the same time. I did not have an M.2 SATA drive to test, but this 1-terabyte card should work. Just know that Satechi's hub does not support NVME M.2 cards.

Photograph: Otterbox

This is our Runner-Up pick in our guide to the Best Apple 3-in-1 Wireless Chargers. It can charge all your Apple devices at top speed and comes with a 6.6-foot cable and a 36-watt wall charger.

Apple hasn't nixed the charging adapter from its iPads yet, but it probably won't be long before you'll need to start buying your own. Or maybe you just want a spare for another room. I like this tiny adapter from Anker. The 30 watts can fast-charge the iPad Pro despite the compact size and the plug folds in, making it a nice option to take on the go.

What we like best about this phone mount is that you can use it one-handed. The arms automatically close around the phone when you place it against the trigger button. To remove it, press the release bars. There's also a telescopic arm and ball joint that allows you to tweak the placement and set an ideal angle. We also love the clever magnetic tab that attaches the charging cable to the back of the mount, to keep from having to fish around for it. Plus, it's super sturdy—even on bumpy roads.

Jump to a Topic: iPads, MacBooks, Apple Watches, Beats and AirPods, Chargers, Cases and Accessories.

Phone Cases and Accessory Deals

Check out our Best MagSafe Accessories, Best iPhone 15 Cases, and Best Camera Gear For Your Smartphone guides for other picks.

Lume Cube Mobile Creator Kit 2.0 Photograph: Lume Cube

This kit comes with a Lume Cube light, a compact tripod (that opens up to 55 inches in length), a shotgun mic with a windscreen, and a universal phone mount with clips to attach all these accessories. It's a great and convenient all-in-one solution if you shoot content with your smartphone.

Otterbox is the first name in super-protective phone cases, and it features in our Best Galaxy S23 Cases, Best iPhone 15 Cases, guides along with many others. Over the years, several people on the WIRED Gear Team have had and tested Otterbox cases, we can definitely speak to their reputation for durability. Otterbox also makes one of our favorite Apple 3-in-1 chargers. Everything on its site is 25 percent off.

This is our favorite way to mount an iPhone to a bike or scooter. Or pretty much anything that's a rod. It sits secure, and you have to pair it with a Peak Design SlimLink case for added security—your MagSafe iPhone won't fly off even if you go over a deep pothole. Other MagSafe accessories from the company are also on sale, like the Car Vent Mount, which we also really like.

Photograph: Amazon

Apple's AirTags are a handy way to keep track of your stuff (as long as you're careful to make sure you're not being tracked without your permission). These often go on sale, but if you're itching to pick up a pack of them, now's as good a time as any.

Apple's official MagSafe case has accurate cutouts for ports, clicky buttons, and it protects the entire bottom edge of the phone. It comes in a variety of colors too. Select colors are also on sale for the iPhone 15 Pro Max for the same price.

This collab between the two brands brings the rugged design from Nomad's cases and the SlimLink MagSafe mount system from Peak Design. It's a great combo that gives you more security when mounting your iPhone 14 Pro or iPhone 14 Pro Max.

Tired of people glancing at your display in public? The Glass Elite Privacy 360 will block anyone from seeing content on your screen from the sides. It feels great and is easy to apply too. Our only complaint is that Zagg's screen protectors are typically expensive. This has hit as low as $24, but it's a good screen protector if you need one for your iPhone 14. Other sizes (for the iPhone 14 Plus, iPhone 14 Pro, and iPhone 14 Pro Max) are also on sale.

Totallee Thin iPhone Cases Photograph: Totallee

You won't get the most protection from Totallee's cases, but they're some of the thinnest on the market. It will keep your handset safe from everyday scuffs without adding too much bulk. These cases are available for a variety of iPhone models.

If you have an iPhone 14 or earlier, you can never own too many Lightning cables. These cables from Nomad are durable, come with the choice between USB-C and USB-A for the other end, and are available in different lengths.

We're fans of Incipio cases—we've included them in our Best iPhones 15 Cases and Best Samsung Galaxy S23 Cases guides. For Cyber Monday, the company is offering up to 50 percent off a wide selection of cases and accessories.

Photograph: Zugu

We named this the best iPad folio case we've ever tested. Why? It's durable, with a lip around the edges of the screen that protects the expensive glass if dropped, and the buttons feel solid, yet easy to use. The magnetized cover stays securely shut, and it can be reversed to become a stand in eight different angles. Don't have a 2022 10.9-inch iPad? No problem. There are cases to fit lots of iPads, even those several years old, and most of them are also on sale.

Never mind that it's wool—it actually is easy to clean, as reviewer Brenda Stolyar found out while testing it underneath her laptop, keyboard, notebook, and coffee mug. There's a lot of real estate, and it comes in a variety of colors. It's why we called it the best overall desk mat on the market. There's a pricier version with cork on the bottom, if you think the regular, felt-bottomed version will slip around on the desk—say, if you're using a glass table.

Photograph: Popsockets

This is one of our favorite MagSafe phone grips. It magnetically sticks to the back of your iPhone and you can pop out the grip for extra stability. You can just take it off to wirelessly charge your device.

This cable can do it all, which is why it's currently sitting at the top of our Best USB-C Cables guide. It can deliver 100 watts, transfer data at up to 40 Gbps, and serve an 8K display (or two 4K displays). It supports DisplayPort Alt Mode (DP Alt Mode), USB Power Delivery (USB-PD), and PPS, and it is backward-compatible with all earlier standards. It's pricey, even with the discount, but it rarely dips this low. This is also the longest size; the shorter one is also on sale.

The Creator Kit acts as the link between your phone and various mounting solutions. It comes with a magnetic locking mount that works with the Peak Design SlimLink phone case and a few different mounting options including a Peak Design Arca quick-release plate, a GoPro mount adapter, and a 1/4-inch tripod mount. That way, you can easily mount it on almost any tripod. Your phone (with the case protecting it) will slot easily into the SlimLink mount and stay secure.

What About iPhone Deals?

You typically won't see many iPhone deals. Those sales usually come from carriers like AT&T, Verizon, and T-Mobile, and have several requirements, like being on an unlimited plan or opening a new cell line. If you're in the market for a new iPhone, we've laid out a few deals on older unlocked models here, along with some carrier promotions.

Published November 26, 2023: We've updated prices throughout for Cyber Monday sales, and added a few more deals including the Otterbox sale, HyperDrive 6-in-1 Dongle, and Macbook Pro 16-inch laptop.