First game, first point, first win.

Connor Bedard's debut did not disappoint on Tuesday, as the Chicago rookie helped the Blackhawks to a 4-2 win over the Penguins on opening night.

The Blackhawks rallied from a 2-0 deficit, scoring four unanswered goals to pick up the victory in Pittsburgh.

Bryan Rust opened the scoring for the Penguins in the first period, and a Sidney Crosby goal in the second doubled the Pittsburgh lead. However, Bedard helped set up a Ryan Donato goal in the middle frame to get the Blackhawks on the board, picking up his first NHL point in the process.

In the third period, Cole Guttman potted the equalizer for Chicago early in the frame. With less than five minutes left in regulation, Jason Dickinson fired home a shot from the slot that gave Chicago its first lead of the night. A Nick Foligno empty net goal sealed the deal for the Blackhawks.

Bedard was as advertised in his NHL debut. The Chicago rookie led all players on his club in shots on goal, recording five in his first game on 11 shot attempts. His 21:29 time on ice was second to only Seth Jones, as Chicago head coach Luke Richardson did not hold the 18-year-old back. He did struggle in the faceoff dot, winning just two of 13 draws, but it was a strong first impression at the NHL level.

For the Penguins, the third period struggles from last season have seemingly carried over to start this year. Last year, Pittsburgh finished tied for the most losses after taking a lead into the third period. The crew followed that trend on Tuesday night, letting a 2-1 lead to start the final frame slip away.

Bedard and the Blackhawks are back in action on national TV tomorrow, as Chicago heads to Boston for a Wednesday night date with the Bruins.

MORE: Watch Blackhawks vs. Penguins live on Fubo (free trial)

The Sporting News provided updates and highlights from Connor Bedard's NHL debut in the Blackhawks vs. Penguins game.

Blackhawks vs. Penguins score

1 2 3 F Blackhawks 0 1 3 4 Penguins 1 1 0 2

Blackhawks vs. Penguins live updates, highlights from Connor Bedard's NHL debut

All times Eastern

Final: Blackhawks 4, Penguins 2

10:50 p.m. — The Blackhawks score four unanswered goals to come from behind and take down the Penguins on opening night. Bedard was as advertised in his debut, picking up his first NHL point in the process. The third period struggles continue over from last season for the Penguins.

10:48 p.m. — Jarry back to the Pittsburgh bench again for the extra attacker.

Blackhawks 4, Penguins 2

10:48 p.m. — GOAL! Perry finds Foligno for the empty net goal. The veteran line gave the Blackhawks the lead, and then the unit ices the game with 1:27 to go.

10:47 p.m. — Penguins head coach Mike Sullivan pulls Jarry for the extra attacker with over two minutes to go.

Blackhawks 3, Penguins 2

10:40 p.m. — GOAL! Chicago takes its first lead of the game thanks to Jason Dickinson. Nick Foligno drops a pass on a zone entry to Perry, who tries to get a shot on net, but it deflects to the middle and Dickinson snaps it home. The Penguins, who struggled with third period leads last year, have given up three unanswered and find themselves down one with 4:33 to go.

Jason Dickinson buries the crazy carom to give Chicago the late lead in Pittsburgh!#Blackhawks pic.twitter.com/rSxEzSnylC — Hockey Daily 365 l NHL Highlights & News (@HockeyDaily365) October 11, 2023

10:36 p.m. — Mrazek records another sensational save, this time on Guentzel. Karlsson makes an excellent backhand pass down to Guentzel at the dot for a one-timer, but Mrazek pushes over and snags the shot. He's been the best player on either side tonight.

Penguins 2, Blackhawks 2

10:31 p.m. — GOAL! We have a tied game in Pittsburgh as Guttman gets the equalizer for Chicago. He found a soft spot in the Penguins defense in the slot, gets a pass from Jones and makes no mistake, beating Jarry by the glove. It's 2-2 with 9:55 left in regulation.

Tie game with less than half the period to go 👀 pic.twitter.com/uqB1Z2Bnol — B/R Open Ice (@BR_OpenIce) October 11, 2023

10:24 p.m. — The Blackhawks can't take advantage of a power play again, dropping to 0 for 4 tonight on the PP. Pittsburgh remains ahead 2-1 with 13:43 left in the period.

10:20 p.m. — Pittsburgh kills off the Nieto penalty, but seconds after going back to even strength, Letang picks up a cross-checking minor. Chicago goes right back to the man advantage.

10:19 p.m. — Corey Perry had not just one, but two point-blank chances in front of the Pittsburgh net, but he put the puck right into the midsection of Jarry both times.

10:17 p.m. — The Blackhawks are going to their third power play of the night as Matt Nieto is called for hooking just 2:28 into the third.

10:14 p.m. — The third period is a go from Pittsburgh with the Penguins holding onto a one-goal lead.

End of the second period: Penguins 2, Blackhawks 1

9:56 p.m. — Both teams get on the board in the middle frame, but it's the Penguins that remain ahead going into the final period. Bedard looks to be improving every shift and he picks up his first NHL point on the Donato goal.

9:54 p.m. — An awful line change by the Blackhawks allows Malkin to send Smith on a breakaway, but Mrazek comes up with the stop.

Penguins 2, Blackhawks 1

9:47 p.m. — GOAL! Ryan Donato slips home a rebound from the top of the crease to put Chicago on the board, and Bedard has his first NHL point, picking up a secondary assist on the tally. Alex Vlasic walks in off the wall and puts a low shot on Jarry that is saved, but Donato pulls the rebound around and by Jarry's leg with 4:23 left in the second.

🚨first NHL assist for Connor Bedard. the full sequence starting with his zone entry pic.twitter.com/JqJMhchiTN — Shayna (@hayyyshayyy) October 11, 2023

Ryan Donato puts home the juicy rebound to give Connor Bedard his first NHL point!#Blackhawks | #NHLFaceoff pic.twitter.com/JbjVPvHVLE — Hockey Daily 365 l NHL Highlights & News (@HockeyDaily365) October 11, 2023

9:46 p.m. — Chicago kills off the delay of game penalty, so it's back to even strength. For all the star power on the top unit, the Pittsburgh power play has not been as crisp as expected.

Penguins 2, Blackhawks 0

9:42 p.m. — GOAL! Crosby's goal stands, as the official determine the play was onside. A great cycle from Pittsburgh results in the captain putting home his first of the year with 8:04 to go. With the unsuccessful challenge, the Blackhawks are hit with a delay of game penalty, so the Penguins get the goal and a power play.

JUST CROSBY DOING HIS THING 💥 pic.twitter.com/AN0gLjd2lY — B/R Open Ice (@BR_OpenIce) October 11, 2023

9:39 p.m. — The Penguins may have doubled their lead, as Crosby sends a loose puck into the wide open net for the score off a give-and-go with Guentzel. However, the Blackhawks are challenging the play for offside. Marcus Pettersson had to reach for the puck along the blue line and it may have come out of the zone.

9:27 p.m. — Jarry keeps the shutout going with two real strong saves on Johnson. A shot from the point was tipped by an unmanned Johnson at the top of the crease. When that didn't go, he got a second whack at the loose puck, but Jarry stuck out the leg to make the stop.

9:23 p.m. — Reilly Smith, who was traded to the Penguins this offseason from the Golden Knights, is denied by the glove of Mrazek off the rush. Smith had a puck trickle to him on the right side, but he shot it right into the mitt of the Blackhawks goaltender.

Petr Mrazek with a nifty glove stop on Reilly Smith#Blackhawks | #NHLFaceoff pic.twitter.com/AkE9PEgRrZ — Hockey Daily 365 l NHL Highlights & News (@HockeyDaily365) October 11, 2023

9:21 p.m. — Pittsburgh kills off the Carter minor. Chicago made it fairly easy on that power play, putting just one shot on net and spending a majority of the man advantage passing around the perimeter.

9:19 p.m. — Jeff Carter gives the Blackhawks an early power play, as the Penguins veteran is called for holding the stick of Korchinski. Chicago gets its second crack on the man advantage.

9:15 p.m. — Puck is down for the second period in Pittsburgh.

End of the first period: Penguins 1, Blackhawks 0

8:56 p.m. — The first 20 minutes features tons of shot attempts, but Rust's tally is the only one on the scoreboard. A strong showing so far from Bedard, who has not shied away from putting the puck on net. He had four shot attempts in the opening frame, with two on net. The Blackhawks out-shot the Penguins 17-13, but Pittsburgh holds the lead.

8:51 p.m. — An excellent shift by Bedard nearly results in his first goal. Initially, Bedard shows off his elite release by zipping a shot from long-range, but it's turned aside by Jarry. Later in the shift, the rookie gets two whacks at a loose puck in front of the crease, but he could not beat the Penguins goaltender.

Bedard shows off the release, Jarry with the save pic.twitter.com/BKLDkQdpwD — Hockey Realm (@hockey_realm) October 11, 2023

Connor Bedard with his first good scoring chance. pic.twitter.com/6TWSCfXUlR — Steven Ellis (@SEllisHockey) October 11, 2023

8:47 p.m. — Noel Acciari and Tyler Johnson collide in the neutral zone, and Johnson is left leaking from the bridge of his nose. Initially Acciari is assessed a double minor for high-sticking, but after reviewing the play, no penalty was killed. The officials deemed that the stick was not above the shoulders, therefore, no infraction.

8:46 p.m. — The Blackhawks kill off the Kaiser minor. Pittsburgh managed to get three shots on Mrazek, but could not build on its lead.

8:43 p.m. — Karlsson dances by Cole Guttman at the blue line, walks into the slot and lets one rip, but Mrazek stares it down the whole way, making the glove stop on the Penguins defenseman.

Erik Karlsson with the moves 👀#LetsGoPens | #NHLFaceoff pic.twitter.com/GCWVIGnAS2 — Hockey Daily 365 l NHL Highlights & News (@HockeyDaily365) October 11, 2023

8:41 p.m. — Pittsburgh heads to its first power play of the game, as Wyatt Kaiser trips up Malkin in the neutral zone. This will be the first time seeing Erik Karlsson running the power play for the Penguins, taking Letang's place on the top unit with Crosby, Malkin, Guentzel and Rickard Rakell.

8:36 p.m. — Evgeni Malkin makes a beautiful saucer pass to Jake Guentzel cutting the net, but the Penguins winger could not elevate the puck over the shoulder of Mrazek. At the other end, Taylor Raddysh took a feed from behind the net, but put it right in the midsection of Jarry.

8:34 p.m. — Rust opening the scoring for the Penguins to start the year has become a trend. The winger has potted the first goal in the team's opener in each of the last three seasons.

8:30 p.m. — Moments after the Rust tally, Crosby nearly doubles the Penguins' lead on a breakaway, but his backhand attempt was stuffed by Mrazek's pad.

Penguins 1, Blackhawks 0

8:29 p.m. — GOAL! Right after the Penguins killed off the Eller minor, Pittsburgh gets on the board first courtesy of Bryan Rust. Kris Letang throws a shot on net that Rust tips up and over the shoulder of the Blackhawks goaltender. It was not originally called a goal on the ice, but after review, it's 1-0 Penguins with 12:56 remaining in the frame.

Rust gets the Penguins their first of the season 🚨 pic.twitter.com/RKNyaJT0LD — B/R Open Ice (@BR_OpenIce) October 11, 2023

8:28 p.m. — It's a strong showing from the top PP unit for the Blackhawks, but Bedard and Co. can't capitalize on the man advantage. Chicago had four shots on goal, including a Bedard one-timer that was stopped by the pad of Mrazek.

8:26 p.m. — Penguins forward Lars Eller is called for goalie interference, as he clips the leg of Petr Mrazek in the crease. The Blackhawks head to the first power play of the game about five minutes into the period.

8:23 p.m. — Through the first four minutes, it's been a back-and-forth affair. Neither team have been able to sustain much pressure. Most of Chicago's shot attempts have been from the outside, making it easy on Tristan Jarry.

8:19 p.m. — It was an uneventful first shift for Bedard, as the Penguins controlled most of the play in the Blackhawks' zone.

8:17 p.m. — Bedard and Crosby square up for the opening face off, and Bedard's debut is underway!

Sidney Crosby 🆚 Connor Bedard on the draw to start this one off.



What a moment. pic.twitter.com/4BPboh8jdp — Sportsnet (@Sportsnet) October 11, 2023

Pregame

7:58 p.m. — Here is how the two sides are lining up for the season opener.

Almost time for hockey!



📺: ESPN, ESPN+ pic.twitter.com/Qsk9Jgfp1c — Pittsburgh Penguins (@penguins) October 10, 2023

#Blackhawks Opening Night lineup vs. Penguins:

Hall-Bedard-Donato

T. Johnson-Reichel-Raddysh

Katchouk-Guttman-Athanasiou

Perry-Dickinson-Foligno



Vlasic-Jones

Korchinski-Murphy

Tinordi-Kaiser



Mrazek

Söderblom



Extras: Entwistle, R. Johnson, Zaitsev — Charlie Roumeliotis (@CRoumeliotis) October 10, 2023

7:50 p.m. — Bedard isn't the only rookie making their debut tonight. Blackhawks defenseman Kevin Korchinski is playing in his first NHL game tonight. Korchinski was the No. 7 overall pick in the 2022 draft, one of three first-round selections by Chicago that year. He played his junior career with the Seattle Thunderbirds of the WHL.

7:36 p.m. — You want to talk confidence? How about going without a bucket in warmups? Bedard is rocking the no-helmet look ahead of his NHL debut.

Connor Bedard going with the no-helmet look during pregame warmups. #Blackhawks pic.twitter.com/qrr93vlMsh — Charlie Roumeliotis (@CRoumeliotis) October 10, 2023

7:33 p.m. — A stick may be important when playing the game of hockey.

Note to self:

Don't forget your stick ahead of your NHL debut. pic.twitter.com/guzVprRXfY — Sportsnet (@Sportsnet) October 10, 2023

7:02 p.m. — If it feels like Sidney Crosby, Kris Letang and Evgeni Malkin have been in Pittsburgh forever, that's because it had. The trio are set to surpass Yankees legend Derek Jeter, Mariano Rivera and Jorge Posada as the longest-tenured trio of teammates in North American sports history.

Ready for the Big Three to take the ice for their 18th season together.



Sidney Crosby, Evgeni Malkin and Kris Letang are set to surpass the New York Yankees’ Derek Jeter, Mariano Rivera and Jorge Posada as the longest-tenured trio of teammates in NHL, MLB, NBA and NFL history. pic.twitter.com/bvcWZOw7kO — Pens Inside Scoop (@PensInsideScoop) October 10, 2023

6:45 p.m. — All the buzz has been about Bedard leading up the matchup, but there's a new Penguin on the roster. Erik Karlsson, who won his third Norris Trophy last season, was brought in this summer in a trade with the Sharks. It gives the Penguins a talented duo on the blue line of Kris Letang and Karlsson, although the two likely won't be paired together.

Actually, this is exactly what we’ve been waiting for. pic.twitter.com/0ZJA4YRs6v — Pittsburgh Penguins (@penguins) October 10, 2023

6:30 p.m. — Connor Bedard is in the house for his NHL debut. It's the most anticipated first game for a rookie since Auston Matthews' debut in 2016.

Blackhawks vs. Penguins start time

Date: Tuesday, Oct. 11

Tuesday, Oct. 11 Time: 8 p.m. ET (7 p.m. CT)

The Blackhawks and Penguins are set for puck drop at 8 p.m. ET, 7 p.m. CT in Chicago.

The game is being played at PPG Paints Arena in Pittsburgh, Pa.

MORE: Ranking the NHL's top 50 players for the 2023-24 season

What channel is Blackhawks vs. Penguins on today?

TV Channel (U.S): ESPN

ESPN TV Channel (Canada): Sportsnet, TVA Sports

Sportsnet, TVA Sports Live stream (U.S.): ESPN+, Fubo

ESPN+, Fubo Live stream (Canada): Sportsnet+

ESPN has coverage of the Blackhawks vs. Penguins game on Tuesday evening. The Pittsburgh-Chicago contest is one of three games that the network has on opening night.

ESPN's "A-team" will be on the call for Bedard's debut, as Sean McDonough (play-by-play), Ray Ferraro (analyst) and Emily Kaplan (reporter) will be the broadcast team for Blackhawks vs. Penguins.

The game can be streamed through ESPN+, or with Fubo, which offers a free trial.

MORE: NHL predictions 2023-24: Awards, playoff projections, Stanley Cup pick

In Canada, Sportsnet will be bringing the action to TVs. TVA Sports also will have the game for the French-speaking audience. Cord cutters can catch the action through Sportsnet+.

NHL Opening Night schedule 2023

The Blackhawks-Penguins game is sandwiched between two other opening night matchups.

The first game on the docket was a matchup between the Predators and the Lightning. Tampa Bay is starting this year without star goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy, who is expected to miss the first two months of the season after undergoing back surgery.

After the Blackhawks-Penguins contest, the Golden Knights vs. Kraken will wrap up the evening. Before the game in Vegas, the Golden Knights will hold a ceremony to raise their 2023 Stanley Cup banner.

Tuesday, Oct. 10