London derbies are always full of venom and vigor, but the opening 45 minutes of Tottenham vs. Chelsea on Monday produced one of the greatest train wrecks in the history of the English top flight.

With repeated refereeing blunders one of the main talking points of the season thus far, a half full of VAR checks and highly scrutinized decisions caused absolute chaos on the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium pitch.

All told, one red card and four yellow cards were produced by Michael Oliver with help from VAR official John Brooks, while Chelsea saw goals ruled out on an incredible four separate occasions. It resulted in an incredible 12 minutes of stoppage time, and while many of the decisions were widely analysed as correct, the lengthy review processes were criticised just as much as the eventual results.

The first half would end level at 1-1, with Tottenham reduced to 10 men, and Premier League fans had plenty to talk about with friends, fans, and coworkers. The Sporting News breaks down each memorable moment in what was an action-packed opening 45 minutes.

MORE: Recap the Premier League match with commentary, highlights, & more from Tottenham vs Chelsea

First half of Chelsea vs Tottenham features multiple VAR reviews

The game got off to a flying start as Dejan Kulusevski opened the scoring for Spurs, benefitting from a large deflection off Chelsea defender Levi Colwill which left Roberto Sanchez with no chance to make a save.

With both sides flying forward with electric attacking intent, the match got out of hand quickly.

Heung-Min Son goal disallowed for offside

The flood of VAR interventions came on a relatively innocuous decision where Heung-Min Son seemingly put Tottenham 2-0 up in the 14th minute, but on review the play appeared extremely tight. Ultimately, Son did look as if he was just an inch offside, and the goal was ruled out.

📸 - The official VAR image, offside! No 2-0! pic.twitter.com/Md6DIzmAVe — 𝐀𝐅𝐂 𝐀𝐉𝐀𝐗 💎 (@TheEuropeanLad) November 6, 2023

Destiny Udogie escapes red card for bad tackle

Tottenham were lucky to remain with 11 players in the 18th minute, as Destiny Udogie went in with a horrible two-footed tackle on Raheem Sterling out wide.

Udogie would see yellow initially from Michael Oliver, but there was a subsequent VAR check to review for a possible red card, and for good reason. Udogie's tackle was extremely dangerous, as he lunged in with a leg-breaker.

Ultimately, the Tottenham defender would escape without further punishment for one reason: he missed. Just like Kai Havertz of Arsenal earlier this weekend, who also remained on the pitch against Newcastle for a similar incident, Udogie's tackle would not reach the necessary threshold for a straight red as he did not make full contact with Sterling.

NBC commentator Jon Champion, who has real-time access to the VAR communication, said that the review ultimately determined the tackle was an "upper-level yellow card" that didn't quite meet the qualifications for a red.

Cristian Romero next to avoid straight red card despite review

Just four minutes later, another Tottenham defender would again get away with just a booking despite a VAR review for a possible red card.

Cristian Romero, often criticised for his reckless nature, had a kick-out at Levi Colwill in the 22nd minute behind the play while laying on the ground. He kicked Colwill right in the calf, but no action was taken.

This passage of play was not reviewed by VAR. It's unclear exactly why, but an assumption can be made that the VAR official was likely not aware of the incident until play had already restarted, at which point he cannot intervene. Those incidents have to be caught before play restarts, which is extremely difficult to do as the game continues to flow.

🚨| Romero intentionally kicks Colwill but VAR have not checked it. pic.twitter.com/VCfMjmYEWR — CentreGoals. (@centregoals) November 6, 2023

Raheem Sterling goal disallowed

Chelsea were the next to see a goal chalked off, as Raheem Sterling's 21st minute equaliser was nullified on review. The decision came as Sterling's initial effort, blocked by Pedro Porro, deflected straight back onto the arm of the Chelsea forward.

By rule, any contact by the ball with the arm or hand of an attacking player is an automatic foul, regardless of arm position, intent, or any other factor. Thus, the goal was disallowed.

Correct decision to rule out Sterling's goal? pic.twitter.com/VKnrNC0Y0K — Football Tweet ⚽ (@Football__Tweet) November 6, 2023

Cristian Romero sent off on VAR review, Chelsea awarded penalty

In what was easily the defining moment of the match, Chelsea were ultimately awarded a penalty after a wild passage of play in the 31st minute where they initially put the ball in the back of the net. The goal was ruled out, but a penalty was eventually given along with the first red card.

The ball pinged around the Tottenham penalty area wildly with Spurs unable to clear after blocking multiple efforts, until Moises Caicedo finally buried a long-distance effort with a low finish inside the left post. Despite initially appearing to count, the offside flag was raised extremely late, with the assistant referee determining, after a moment to think, that Nicolas Jackson was interfering with play from an offside position.

Yet that was just the beginning of the saga. With the goal disallowed, a VAR review began for a penalty as Cristian Romero swung wildly into the shins of Raheem Sterling. While he got the ball with his tackle, he followed through with extreme force straight onto both of Sterling's legs, and referee Michael Oliver was sent to the monitor.

After a few looks, Oliver produced a straight red card for Romero's tackle and awarded Chelsea a penalty, which Cole Palmer dispatched to even the scoreline at 1-1.

Watch in USA:

After Chelsea had a goal from Moises Caicedo disallowed due to offside, Cristian Romero was given a red card following a challenge on Enzo Fernandez.



Chelsea were given a penalty and Tottenham went down to 10 men. #TOTCHE pic.twitter.com/sOzTrxgBzm — NBC Sports Soccer (@NBCSportsSoccer) November 6, 2023

Watch in UK:

"AMID FRENZY AND FURY!" 🤯



Cole Palmer levels for Chelsea as Cristian Romero sees red! 🟥 pic.twitter.com/1oULwk1uOP — Sky Sports Premier League (@SkySportsPL) November 6, 2023

Nicolas Jackson goal disallowed for offside

Chelsea would see a third goal of the half disallowed as Nicolas Jackson put the ball in the net on 37 minutes but Raheem Sterling was offside in the buildup just past the midfield stripe. There's very little argument to be had here, and the game played on.

While it was a decision that featured little, if any, controversy, it added to the mayhem of the half and contributed to the game's overall narrative.

Chelsea have a THIRD goal disallowed as Sterling is offside 🤯 pic.twitter.com/brMes6qQQ7 — Mail Sport (@MailSport) November 6, 2023

Reece James avoids red card despite elbow to Destiny Udogie

While two Tottenham defenders escaped an early shower earlier in the match for incidents that could have potentially seen them off, Chelsea also had a player avoid further punishment just before halftime.

Reece James caught Destiny Udogie in the face with a trailing elbow while challenging for a bouncing ball in the air. Referees have been strict with incidents such as these, and it was surprising to see James get away with just a yellow card.

The incident was indeed reviewed, but the VAR official did not ultimately advise a check for Michael Oliver.