The best part of fantasy football is watching the team you draft go out there and have a chance to win a championship, forever cementing your bragging rights over your friends for years to come. The worst part of fantasy is watching the team you drafted go out there and get injured, forget how to play the sport, and then plummet to the bottom of the standings. So if you were one of the lucky ones to reach postseason football in the fantasy world -- congratulations. If you weren't, good news -- just because the regular season has come to a close doesn't mean we can't still keep searching for ways to win. That's why we're heading over to FanDuel to craft the perfect Week 15 DFS lineup to give us something to root for all day long while our friends stress about their team faltering despite dominating for 14 weeks.

Before we break down our picks and strategy, here are the most notable scoring rules for FanDuel contests: four-point passing TDs and half-point PPR.

WEEK 15 FANTASY ADVICE:

Sleepers | Busts | Projections | Start-sit

FanDuel Picks Week 15: NFL DFS lineup for GPP tournaments

Sunday main slate, $60,000 budget

QB Matthew Stafford, Rams vs. Commanders ($7,200). Stafford returns to the friendly confines of SoFi Stadium after having to deal with the elements in Baltimore last week. After nearly pulling off the upset over the Ravens, the QB has a nice landing spot against a defense that is equivalent to the props used in training camp. Washington can't slow anyone down, and it has only gotten worse since they traded away two of their best defenders at the deadline. Stafford doesn't have the rushing upside, but he's more than capable of having a good day with his arm.

RB Rachaad White, Buccaneers @ Packers ($7,600). White stockholders are feeling pretty good right now after singing his praises all offseason. The RB has rewarded them with eight straight games of at least double-digit fantasy performances, including three straight games with at least 100 total yards. Tampa has handed the ball off to White 60 times over that stretch, something that has ticked up with each passing week. As arguably the top option in the Bucs' offense, we'd be crazy to stand in the way of White against a vulnerable Packers defense in Week 15.

WEEK 15 DFS:

DK lineup | Best values | Best stacks

RB Breece Hall, Jets @ Dolphins ($7,500). Did the Jets offense find something against the Texans? We're not quite buying in yet, but it does appear that New York's coaches figured they should stop coaching scared. With the season essentially over for Gang Green barring a miracle, the staff took the handcuffs off Zach Wilson and unleashed an offense that's been run-run-pass-punting their way to irrelevance all season long. In doing so last week, Hall was a weapon as a receiver, posting over 100 total yards for the first time since Week 5. If the Jets continue their willingness to take chances downfield and let Wilson stop being a game manager, then Hall is in line for another big day.

WR Deebo Samuel, 49ers @ Cardinals ($8,400). We'll just keep riding with Samuel down the stretch, as he isn't giving us any reason to reconsider. He has back-to-back games with 30 fantasy points and has been a man on a mission since Thanksgiving. He shouldn't have any problems continuing that run against the Cardinals on Sunday.

WEEK 15 PPR RANKINGS:

QBs | RBs | WRs | TEs | D/STs | Kickers

WR Puka Nacua, Rams vs. Commanders ($8,000). Usually, one of Nacua or Kupp has a big day, but this week it could both. Either way, we're on the Nacua train heading into Sunday since the rookie has been by far the L.A.'s most consistent weapon all season. Even with Kupp back in the fold, Stafford continues to trust Nacua. He's not seeing the 15-20 targets a game like earlier in the year, but the rookie is making the most of his seven-plus opportunities a game. Against a terrible defense, both receivers should see plenty of chances to make their mark on the game. Nacua checks in at $200 less and is arguably better than Kupp in fantasy at this stage. In a game where every dollar counts, pocketing that extra $200 can really pay off at another roster spot.

WR Rashee Rice, Chiefs @ Patriots ($6,500). There are plenty of issues with the Chiefs' receivers, but Rice is not one of them. The rookie has been very impressive through the first 14 weeks of his NFL career and hauled in yet another touchdown on Sunday to post a respectable fantasy showing. He's been targeted 29 times over the past three games and scored twice. We can expect New England will try to take away Travis Kelce, meaning that the opportunities could be coming even more often for Rice in Week 15.

WEEK 15 STANDARD RANKINGS:

QBs | RBs | WRs | TEs | D/STs | Kickers

TE Chig Okonkwo, Titans vs. Texans ($5,000). Okonkwo has emerged as a nice weapon for the rookie QB Will Levis, with his target share ticking up as the season has progressed. He turned in 45 and 62 yards, respectively, in Weeks 12 and 13, seeing 11 targets in that span. All that's missing is a touchdown. In a brutal week for main-slate TE matchups, we like Okonkwo to outperform his listed salary against a Texans team that's had its fair share of struggles defending the position recently.

FLEX WR Jayden Reed, Packers vs. Buccaneers ($6,100). The status of Christian Watson (hamstring) will hang over the Packers heading into their game against the Buccaneers. Reed is more than capable of having a big day whether Watson plays or not. The former North Dakota State receiver's presence has capped Reed's ceiling recently, but Tampa's secondary is still having major issues doing its job. Jordan Love appears to have turned a corner, meaning we should expect him to put on a show back at home. Reed will be the primary beneficiary on Sunday.

DEF New York Giants @ Saints ($3,500). There is a lot of bad offense across the NFL this season, and despite signing Derek Carr to make sure they wouldn't be listed among them, the Saints are there anyway. The QB refuses to sit out and deal with the laundry list of injuries ailing him at this point despite them clearly being an issue. Teammates appear fed up with Carr and would seemingly prefer the team return him to the dealership. The Saints are upside-down on this deal right now, with no end in sight. The Giants aren't good, but they have enough defensive pop to contain an offense that keeps spinning its tires most weeks.

Best SuperDraft NFL DFS Picks for Week 15

This year, we're also listing our favorite DFS plays on SuperDraft.

For those unfamiliar, SuperDraft's DFS scoring involves point multipliers as opposed to traditional salary-capped or tiered contests. A winning lineup will likely feature a strong mix of stud fantasy contributors with 1x-1.6x boosts, as well as matchup-based sleepers with larger multipliers. Each player is assigned a scoring multiplier based on their value as determined by SuperDraft. Users can roster any player in their lineup with no restrictions.

MORE: Win BIG with SuperDraft! Get a free $10 deposit when you use promo code "TSN"!

Here are the most notable scoring rules for SuperDraft NFL contests: Half-point PPR, four-point passing TDs, two-point bonuses for 100 rushing yards, 100 receiving yards, and 300 passing yards.

MORE SUPERDRAFT DFS: How to play SuperDraft

QB: Matthew Stafford, Rams (Multiplier 1.3x)

RB: Rachaad White, Buccaneers (Multiplier 1.2x)

RB: Bijan Robinson, Falcons (Multiplier 1.25x)

WR: Puka Nacua, Rams (Multiplier 1.25x)

WR: Deebo Samuel, 49ers (Multiplier 1.2x)

WR: Rashee Rice, Chiefs (Multiplier 1.35x)

TE: Tyler Conklin, Jets (Multiplier 1.7x)

FLEX: RB Derrick Henry, Titans (Multiplier 1.2x)

Our SuperDraft lineup aims to keep our Rams stack together with Stafford and Nacua while adding in other players with high floors and ceilings like White, Samuel, and Henry. Considering the matchups, we like taking shots on Robinson, Rice, and Conklin, especially with the multipliers working overtime to bring in an even better score.