Table of Contents Table of Contents What are Walmart's Black Friday hours in 2023? Is Walmart holding a Cyber Monday sale? TV deals Laptop deals Headphone/earbud deals Tablet deals Smartwatch deals Gaming deals Speaker and soundbar deals Vacuum deals Robot vacuum deals Home and kitchen deals Outdoor deals Apple deals Pet deals Fitness deals Toys and gift deals

UPDATE: Nov. 25, 2023, 4:00 a.m. EST We've updated this story with the latest deals from the Walmart early Cyber Monday sale.

Early birds already know that Walmart launched its first round of Black Friday deals back on Nov. 8 and just dished out another round the day before Thanksgiving. Some of the retailer's most popular rollbacks have already sold out. Leave items in your shopping cart too long and you'll risk losing out on your haul.

Although the official Black Friday programming has kept us busy all month long, the big day has finally arrived — actual Black Friday. If you've held out until now to do your shopping, we've compiled a list of over 180 of the best deals from Walmart's Black Friday sale and highlighted our favorites from different departments. We'll be updating the list throughout Cyber Monday, so keep checking back.

What are Walmart's Black Friday hours in 2023?

The days of lining up outside big-box stores on Black Friday eve have officially ended, and we're not sorry. Not only is this kinder on Walmart employees, but it puts the kibosh on the kinds of doorbuster melees that often took place in the past. (They were a national embarrassment.)

For 2023, Walmart launched its Black Friday deals online first, with the last round of rollbacks going live Wednesday, Nov. 22 at 3 p.m. ET. In-person shoppers had to wait until Friday, Nov. 24 at 6 a.m. when Walmart stores officially opened their doors, although hours can differ depending on the location. Shoppers will have until 11 p.m. to finish their Black Friday shopping.

Of course, there's no need to brave the crowds. You can still find the best Walmart Black Friday sales online, and we've got a lot of them for you below.

Is Walmart holding a Cyber Monday sale?

Glad you asked. If you don't have time to shop the Black Friday sales or you missed out on a great deal earlier this month, don't you worry. Walmart just announced its official Cyber Monday sale will start on Sunday, Nov. 26 at 7 p.m. ET, exclusively on Walmart.com and the Walmart app. If you're a Walmart+, you can access the sale three hours in advance, starting at 4 p.m. ET. This is the first time Walmart has given early access to Walmart+ members for its Cyber Monday sale (although it usually does for Black Friday). The Cyber Monday sale promises deals on top gifts with savings of up to 80% on apparel, beauty, tech, toys, and more. Stay tuned for the best deals from the sale in the coming days.

Note: All newly added deals are marked with a ✨. Deals with a strikeout were either sold out or expired at the time of writing.

TV deals

Why we like it

The best Walmart Black Friday deals typically include giant rollbacks on TVs, and that tradition continues in 2023. Unfortunately, many popular 4K TVs sold out way before Black Friday officially began, but there are still solid cheap 4K TVs lingering. This 55-inch QLED TV was already affordable at full price and is now seeing an extra $50 discount, pushing it below $350. Thanks to its extra layer of quantum dots, you'll be able to appreciate rich colors and deep blacks even during the day.

More TV deals

43 to 55 inches

65 inches

70 to 86 inches

Laptop deals

Why we like it

The total discount on this HP laptop isn't the biggest rollback we've seen so far, but it's a deceptively good deal on an underpriced laptop. With an Intel Core i5 processor, this business 2-in-1 will be more than capable of handling your day-to-day work (and after-work streaming and surfing). While supplies last, you can get this device for under $500.

More laptop deals

Traditional laptops

2-in-1 laptops

Gaming laptops

Headphone/earbud deals

Why we like it

If you're not ready to make the switch over to USB-C just yet, the second-gen AirPods Pro with a Lightning port are a stellar buy at only $169 — it's their lowest price to date. (For its part, Amazon has never put them on sale for less than $189.) These wireless earbuds from fall 2022 "sound wonderful and have almost uncanny active noise cancelation," said Mashable senior editor Stan Schroeder, and they last for up to six hours on a single charge.

Read Mashable's review of the Apple AirPods Pro (2nd Generation).

More headphone/earbud deals

Tablet deals

Why we like it

Best tablets under $100? Try best tablets under $30. Sure, this onn. tablet may not have all the functionality of an iPad, but if you're looking for a super basic tablet to watch videos or read on, you'll be hard-pressed to find anything in the $20 range. Even Fire tablets have only dropped down to $40 this Cyber Monday.

More tablet deals

Smartwatch deals

Why we like it

Apple's latest entry-level wearable also has a new record-low price at Walmart for Black Friday (which works out to a 28% savings). It's lighter and 20 percent faster than the original Apple Watch SE from 2020, and it features most of the same health tools as the new flagship Apple Watch Series 9 — that includes heart rate notifications, Emergency SOS, Cycle Tracking, and Fall and Crash Detection. It also offers a comparable 18-hour battery life and water resistance.

More smartwatch deals

Gaming deals

Why we like it

With $439 as the new all-time low price for this Xbox bundle, you're basically getting a free copy of Diablo IV on top of a $60 discount on the Series X (which typically sells for $499.99 on its own). The only other retailer that was matching it at the time of writing was the Microsoft Store itself, and its markdown seems to have popped up recently in response to Walmart's doorbuster: A post on the Xbox Wire had previously pegged its Black Friday price there at $509.99.

Read Mashable's review of the Xbox Series X.

More gaming deals

Nintendo Switch

PlayStation

Xbox

PC gaming

VR gaming

Meta Quest 2 (128GB) — $249 $299.99 (save $50.99) + free $50 Meta Quest Store credit

Other gaming deals

Speaker and soundbar deals

Why we like it

The older version of our favorite portable Bluetooth speaker is decently loud for its compact size, IPX7-rated for waterproofing, and capable of charging other devices via USB (hence its name) — it's ideal for traveling. It usually retails for $179.95 on the JBL website, meaning Walmart's $89 Black Friday price is an even better deal than advertised.

More speaker and soundbar deals

Vacuum deals

Why we like it

Dyson's V15 Detect is a cordless stick vacuum with a fancy LCD screen and a bright built-in laser that illuminates tiny crumbs, pet hairs, and dust particles on your floors (so you can be sure you're actually cleaning them thoroughly); the premium Absolute variant has a shiny gold finish, HEPA filtration, and an extra dusting/crevice tool. Walmart's Black Friday deal saves you 27% and makes it $100 cheaper than the Dyson V12 Detect Slim, which has a smaller dust bin and less suction power.

Read Mashable's review of the Dyson V15 Detect (non-Absolute).

More vacuum deals

Cordless vacuums

Mashable Deals Want more hand-picked deals in your inbox? Sign up for Mashable's daily Deals newsletter. Loading... Sign Me Up By signing up you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy Thanks for signing up!

Upright vacuums

Carpet cleaners

Robot vacuum deals

Why we like it

This model of Shark's 2023 Matrix vacuum might just be the most packed standalone robot vacuum you'll find for less than $200 this Black Friday. It maps your home and vacuums and mops the rooms you want it to, offering a more thorough cleaning with Matrix mode. During dry vacuuming, it cleans in a crosshatch pattern to grab any debris missed from the first pass, and during mopping, it scrubs the floor from multiple angles to eat away at stubborn stains.

More robot vacuum deals

Home and kitchen deals

Why we like it

Vitamix's professional-quality blenders are great to buy refurbished: You'll save a ton of money while preventing an otherwise serviceable device from going to a landfill. This powerful, 64-ounce Explorian model has three program settings (for Smoothies, Hot Soup, and Frozen Desserts) and a low-profile container that lets it fit under most kitchen countertops. It's been cleaned and tested to work as good as new, save for a few hard-to-see "micro-scratches," and comes with a one-year warranty.

More home and kitchen deals

Small appliances

Air purifiers

Cookware

Outdoor deals

Why we like it

Featuring a removable ashtray and a lightweight stainless steel design (plus its own carrying case), the Solo Stove Ranger 2.0 is a smaller version of our favorite smokeless fire pit — and yes, it really is virtually smokeless. This bundle throws in a stand that allows it to safely burn on decks or green grass, and it actually retails for $264.99 on the brand's website; Walmart's list price is slightly deflated, so it's an even better deal than it appears to be.

Read Mashable's review of the Solo Stove Bonfire 2.0.

More outdoor deals

Apple deals

Why we like it

The Apple Watch Series 9 is "a robust and elite wearable device – the best Apple has ever made," according to Mashable Senior Editor Stan Schroeder. While it looks almost identical to its predecessor, it's equipped with a new s9 chip, which makes it about 30 percent snappier than before. It also boasts double the storage and has double the peak brightness and a fun new Double Tap feature. It's not an essential upgrade if you already have a Series 7 or 8, but it's certainly a step in the right direction for those with older watches. At $359 for the 45mm GPS version, it's currently sitting at an all-time low cost at Walmart.

More Apple deals

Pet deals

Why we like it

A solid dog tracking device for pet parents on a budget, Tractive gives you the ability to track your dog's live location within the companion app. It also allows you to set up a virtual fence and notifies you when your pet steps out of (or enters) the safe area. It's not perfect — the battery is just so-so and the live tracking can be a bit glitchy — but for the price, it's hard to beat. Save $20 for Black Friday at Walmart and snag it for only $29.99.

More pet deals

Fitness deals

Why we like it

The Walmart-exclusive Echelon Connect Sport is a solid Peloton alternative for a retail price that won't make you cringe. And for Black Friday, it's on sale for over $400 off, knocking the price down to a super impressive $297. But just because it's wallet-friendly doesn't mean its specs don't impress. The Connect Sport features 32 levels of silent magnetic resistance, aero handlebars and adjustable pedals, and Bluetooth technology that lets you connect any smart device to the Echelon Fit app. Speaking of which, the app gives you access to 40+ daily live and 15,000+ on-demand connected fitness classes. The $297 Black Friday cost even includes a 30-day free trial of Echelon Premier membership to get you started.

More fitness deals

Toys and gift deals

Why we like it

In days gone by, Walmart's Black Friday sale was full of 40% or higher discounts, but the era of the doorbuster deal is ending. And that's why it's so refreshing to see a full 50% discount on a popular item like this. The LEGO Star Wars line includes tons of great gift ideas for fans of all ages, from Jedis to Padawans. This building kit of The Child, aka Baby Yoda, is just begging to live on your office desk.

More deals on toys and gifts