Liverpool vs Everton begins epic Saturday with World Cup semi-final as well as Chelsea vs Arsenal – and it could end with a bang

As the Premier League returns with a Saturday packed full of huge matches, talkSPORT gets the action started at Anfield.

But that's not all there is, with a Rugby World Cup semi-final, a London derby and a packed UFC card among the other offerings.

9 Merseyside derbies are never dull and talkSPORT has the first one of the season live Credit: Getty

9 Everton are starting to look much better after a rocky start Credit: Getty

Here, talkSPORT runs through what is an epic day of sport.

Merseyside derby

Liverpool are sitting in a comfortable fourth place in the Premier League table having picked up five wins out of their opening eight games.

The bad news for Jurgen Klopp is that the Reds lost to Tottenham and only managed a draw with Brighton just before the international break.

And Klopp has a new worry: the Reds are without Andy Robertson after the left-back suffered a shoulder injury while on international duty with Scotland.

His absence could open up a gap in their defence for Everton to exploit.

The Toffees were winless in their first five games, but have since picked up two much-needed wins.

But Everton are up against the odds, having won just one out of the last 25 previous Merseyside derbies.

Liverpool vs Everton is live on talkSPORT at 12:30pm on October 21

9 Sean Dyche's side go into the Merseyside derby as heavy underdogs Credit: Getty

Crystal Palace look to end Newcastle's building momentum

The Magpies have been on an impressive run of form across all competitions, knocking last year's treble winners Manchester City out the Carabao Cup while defeating Paris Saint-Germain 4-1 in the Champions League.

But Crystal Palace proved to be an unbeatable obstacle for Newcastle last season.

They recorded a goalless draw against Palace in all three of their meetings last season in all competitions.

Newcastle are without Joe Willock and Harvey Barnes through injury - but Sandro Tonali is available, despite allegations of illegal betting which led to him being sent home from Italy's national team squad.

Meanwhile, Palace have been defensively impressive this term, keeping four clean sheets.

They sit ninth in the table, just one place behind Newcastle, and can vault the Magpies with a win.

Newcastle take on Crystal Palace live on talkSPORT 2 at 3pm on October 21

9 Tonali will be available for the Magpies despite fears he could be banned Credit: Getty

Arsenal looking to remain 'Kings of London' away at Chelsea

Mikel Arteta's side go into the 5.30pm London derby clash full of confidence having beaten Manchester City in their last match.

And they boast a brilliant record against the Blues of late, winning six out of their last seven meetings.

They have triumphed in their last three trips to Stamford Bridge, and haven't lost in a London derby since May 2022.

As for Chelsea, they go into their match against the Gunners hopeful of a result having won their last three games in all competitions.

Both teams face injury doubts, with Arsenal to potentially be without Bukayo Saka and William Saliba, while it remains to be seen if Reece James and Armando Broja feature for the hosts.

9 Saka missed Arsenal's 1-0 victory over City at the Emirates last time out Credit: Getty

Sheffield United desperate for points against lacklustre Manchester United

With just one point on the board, Sheffield United's season could not be going much worse given they are rock bottom.

With a fixture against Manchester United on the cards, though, they may feel their hopes could be looking up given Erik ten Hag's men disappointing season.

They sit tenth in the table having won four and lost as many from their opening eight games.

But their most recent Premier League victory over Brentford may give the Red Devils hope their season is on the up.

Sheffield United vs Manchester United is live on talkSPORT - kick off is at 8:00pm

9 United got a dramatic win over Brentford before the international break Credit: Getty

An England vs South Africa double header

If you've had your football fix for the day, there's also a packed Saturday of rugby and cricket.

It's crunch time for England in the World Cups as they face South Africa in the semi-final of the Rugby World Cup and in the ODI Cricket World Cup.

After England secured victory over Fiji in the quarter-finals, they now look to overcome defending champions South Africa to advance into their second consecutive Rugby World Cup final.

talkSPORT will have updates from all the action in Paris as England take on the Springboks from 8:00pm

9 Owen Farrell will be looking to inspire England to victory against the Springboks Credit: Getty

Over in India, England's Cricket World Cup hopes hang by a thread after their latest shock defeat to Afghanistan.

They will be boosted by the news that Ben Stokes is fit for the match after he picked up a hip injury five days before the tournament.

But victory for England could scarcely be more crucial.

Having also lost to New Zealand in their opener, their chances of finishing in the top four and progressing to the semi-finals are looking dubious.

But South Africa, despite winning their first two games, suffered a shock defeat to the Netherlands in their most recent match - a sign for England that the Proteas can be beaten.

talkSPORT will bring you updates as England take on South Africa in the Cricket World Cup in Mumbai from 9:30am

9 It's not looking good for England's cricketers

UFC 294 in Abu Dhabi

Islam Makhachev is hoping to to successfully defend his UFC lightweight belt against Alexander Volkanovski at UFC 294.

Makhachev retained his title in February this year as he defeated Volkanovski by a unanimous decision.

But despite the Russian's favourable 24-1-0 record, Volkanovski will be desperate to add the lightweight belt to his featherweight title.

Also on the cards, Kamaru Usman will fight Khamzat Chimaev in a middleweight title eliminator.

Expect fireworks.