The past few weeks of the 2023 NFL season have reminded us that no matter how smooth you sail to start the voyage, choppy waters will surely come at some point. We started the first six weeks with a best bets winning percentage of well over .700, but we have come crashing back down to Earth over the past two weeks. We love our Week 9 best bets, though, and we're confident that we can all get back on track and make you some cash.

Every Friday afternoon, we unveil my favorite moneyline, spread, over/under, and player prop wagers for the upcoming weekend. We run the gauntlet and handpick the best value opportunities on Caesars and SuperDraft, then tell you exactly how and why you should attack the books to make some money. And through eight weeks, despite some bumps in the road, we have made plenty of money.

Despite falling three bets under .500 over the past two weeks (5-6 in Week 7, 6-8 in Week 8), our best bets are still 65-46-1 on the season. That's a winning percentage of over .590, a number many professional bettors wish they were maintaining during this rollercoaster of an NFL season.

And, look, last week wasn't all bad as Arnold Schwarzenneger might say. Sure, our ATS picks went 1-3 and our player prop picks went a pitiful 0-3. But our moneyline and over/under picks went 5-2. So, like the Chiefs after a pathetic loss to the Broncos (one of our incorrect picks last week), we're moving on to Week 9 with our heads held high.

MORE WEEK 9 BETTING: Against the spread | Moneyline | Top props

We don't view sports betting as a gamble. With the right mindset, strategies, and preparedness, we see it as an investment — and we're loving our return on investment through seven weeks. That's why we don't just call this thing of ours a hobby — rather, it's a second job that allows us to punch in while we're sitting on our couch.

Your goal is to boost your bankroll, and our top priority is to help you achieve that goal. That's why we put in a ton of statistical research, attack all the angles, uncover all the betting trends, and pinpoint value across all the sports betting sites each week.

This weekend's slate features a plethora of lucrative opportunities for bettors. So, let's go get that money and reveal our best moneyline, spread, over/under, and SuperDraft player prop bets for Week 9 of the 2023 NFL season.

JUMP TO: Spreads | Moneylines | Over/under | Player props

NFL Best Bets Week 9: Against the spread

All odds courtesy of Caesars Sportsbook

Colts (-2.5) at Panthers

Bryce Young has looked much better now that he has settled into his rookie season with the Panthers, but Carolina still seems like a work in progress. The Colts, meanwhile, have quietly been operating a pretty decent offense — much better than their three-game losing streak might suggest. Indy has scored 65 points between Week 7 and 8, 29 more points than Panthers have scored in that span.

In a Gardner Minshew-Bryce Young battle, we'll take the 'Shew — and the backfield committee of Jonathan Taylor and Zack Moss against Carolina's abysmal run defense just serves as icing on the proverbial cake. The Panthers have allowed the most rushing TDs (14), the third-most points per game (28.4), and the fourth-most rushing yards per game (139.4) during their 1-7 start. The Colts will cruise in this one.

FINAL SCORE PREDICTION: Colts 27, Panthers 17

Seahawks (+6) at Ravens

Baltimore's defense has been incredible of late, and the Ravens seem to be flying under the radar (so to speak) at 6-2. However, the sportsbooks have clearly taken note of their awesome run, giving the NFC West-leading Seahawks a full touchdown on the road. This seems like a great opportunity for us to rock with the 'dog, considering Seattle has won two straight contests and gone 2-1 on the road (including a big win over the high-flying Lions in Detroit).

Geno Smith hasn't been the same Pro Bowl QB as he was in 2022, but he has still demonstrated moments of brilliance for Pete Carroll's squad. And with DK Metcalf and Kenneth Walker III a week closer to full health — and backup RB Zack Charbonnet looking like he's on the verge of a breakout — we like Seattle to at least make this a game in Baltimore. The 'Hawks defense has quietly been pretty good, and we know what kind of fireworks this offense is capable of when everything's clicking. Take an extra 1.5 points as insurance if you want, but we're taking the Seahawks to cover the +6.

FINAL SCORE PREDICTION: Ravens 26, Seahawks 23

Other Week 9 spreads we like: Patriots (-3) vs. Commanders; Raiders -1.5 vs. Giants

Best NFL moneyline bets Week 9

Dolphins (+110) vs. Chiefs (Germany game)

We get it — the Dolphins have yet to defeat a true contender this season and the Chiefs are the reigning champions of the NFL. However, Kansas City just got its doors blown off by Russell Wilson and the lowly Broncos, a game in which Patrick Mahomes and company suffered five turnovers and three sacks.

We expect a statement win from Mike McDaniel and the Dolphins on neutral ground. The Dolphins have been in Frankfurt since early this week, having flown overnight on Monday to give them multiple days to acclimate to the time difference and their surroundings. The Chiefs, meanwhile, waited until after practice on Thursday to take the 11-hour voyage.

This also happens to be a revenge game for former Chiefs receiver Tyreek Hill, who's on pace for multiple single-season receiving records and poised for his first Offensive Player of the Year award. Oh, and Raheem Mostert, who leads the NFL with 10 TDs and ranks second behind only Breece Hall in yards per carry (5.4), should be licking his chops against a Kansas City D that has surrendered 135.6 rushing yards per game over the past three weeks. Fins up in Frankfurt!

FINAL SCORE PREDICTION: Dolphins 26, Chiefs 24

Other Week 9 moneylines we like: Vikings (+170) at Falcons; Bengals (-130) vs. Bills; Cowboys (+140) at Eagles

Best NFL over/under bets Week 9

Raiders vs. Giants: UNDER 37.5

It sounds ludicrous to offer an UNDER of 37.5 as a best bet, but this game takes the cake in a Week 9 schedule loaded with underwhelming matchups. The Raiders just fired their head coach and GM and demoted starting QB Jimmy Garoppolo after appearing lost on Monday night, while the Giants just got Daniel Jones back after scoring a combined 33 points across three miserable performances in a row. Oh, and Darren Waller, the G-men's best pass-catcher, is hurt.

On top of all that, the Giants and Raiders have both been pretty good on the defensive side of the football as of late, so expect Danny Dimes and Aidan O'Connell to have a tough time finding any kind of rhythm in the passing game. This won't be a fun one to watch, but it should be a fun result for UNDER bettors.

FINAL SCORE PREDICTION: Raiders 17, Giants 13

Other Week 9 over/unders we like: Colts at Panthers: OVER 44; Commanders at Patriots: OVER 41; Saints OVER 25.5 vs. Bears

MORE BETTING:

Pick'em, Survivor Pool Picks | Chiefs-Dolphins preview | Chargers-Jets MNF preview

Best NFL player prop bets Week 9

Win BIG with SuperDraft! Get a free $10 deposit when you use promo code "TSN"!

Rashee Rice, Chiefs vs. Dolphins in Germany — OVER 45.5 receiving yards

As soon as I opened up my SuperDraft app, Rashee Rice popped out as the first prop of the first game on Sunday morning (9:30 a.m. in Frankfurt). We love this rookie receiver and the big play ability he has consistently flashed over the past month. During that span, he has averaged over 55 receiving yards per game despite the Chiefs' games being decided by an average of 11.8 points per game.

MORE SUPERDRAFT DFS & FANTASY PROPS: How to play SuperDraft

This one should be a tightly-contested, high-scoring game — with heavy playoff implications, because we all know this could be an AFC Championship preview — so expect Rice to be very busy through all four frames in Frankfurt. The Dolphins have allowed the fifth-most receptions and the 12th-most yards to wideouts this season. If a bounce-back week is meant to be, Sir Rashee is our destiny.

Austin Ekeler, RB, Chargers @ Jets — OVER 29.5 receiving yards

Guess who's back? Back again...Ek is back....tell a friend. The Chargers finally got their best player back to full health, with Ekeler exploding for 123 yards and a TD against the Bears last weekend. A whopping 94 of those 123 yards came through the air, as the PPR god gashed Chicago for chunk yardage a handful of times.

Expect more of the same from QB Justin Herbert and his stud back against the Jets, who have allowed 46 receiving yards per game to RBs (sixth-most in the NFL). They'll try to shut him down this Sunday, but it would feel so empty without AE!

Jahan Dotson, WR, Commanders @ Patriots — OVER 45.5 receiving yards

We've come full circle with Dotson, who made our preseason sleepers column then faded into early-season obscurity only to emerge again over the past two weeks. Curtis Samuel was clearly not right last week, and the second-year wideout more than made up for it. Dotson caught 8-of-10 targets for 108 yards and a TD, a stellar encore to his Week 7 line of five catches for 43 yards. The banged-up Patriots defense will be primarily focused on stopping stud Commanders receiver Terry McLaurin, which should open up plenty of opportunities for Dotson.