The Christmas Eve showdown between the Patriots and the Broncos was expected to be a solid victory by Denver against a team that had won just three games heading into the contest. It was anything but that.

In a game that it had it all between critical turnovers and scores that came down to the final minute, Patriots kicker Chad Ryland hit a 56-yard field goal to send the Patriots to a 26-23 victory.

Coming into this game, New England had played the Chiefs tough but lost at home to fall to 3-11 and improve its chances of landing the No. 1 pick in next year's draft. Denver aimed to get back to the right side of the win column after getting blown out by the Lions in an all-around abysmal performance.

MORE: Chad Ryland redeems himself with game-winning field goal

In this one, it took the Broncos a while once more to put points on the board, with 16 of them coming in the fourth quarter in a comeback effort that proved just a hit too late.

Broncos quarterback Russell Wilson had seemed to be experiencing a bit of a resurgence in his first year playing under head coach Sean Payton, but there have continued to be some ups and downs. Wilson finished out this one 25-of-37 for 238 yards with two touchdowns.

He faced a Patriots defense that is among the better ones in the league, hardly like its offense has been for the better part of the year. The offense ranked 28th in the league heading into the game. However, the Patriots had one of their better showings on that side of the ball as they totaled 289 yards with 23 points.

The Broncos' loss puts their playoff hopes on ice at 7-8, though Denver isn't formally eliminated quite yet. The Patriots moved to 4-11 but hurt their draft positioning in the process.

MORE: Updated 2024 NFL Draft order after Patriots win

The Sporting News tracked live scoring updates and highlights for Patriots vs. Broncos on Sunday night. Check below for what you may have missed.

Patriots vs. Broncos final score

Team 1 2 3 4 F Patriots 0 3 20 0 Broncos 7 0 0 16

Patriots vs. Broncos results, highlights from Sunday night game

(All times Eastern)

Patriots 26, Broncos 23

11:20 p.m.: So much for that... Ryland's 56-yard field goal is good and the Patriots win it.

11:16 p.m.: This game is in a strong position to go into overtime with New England at its own 26 with less than one minute to play in regulation.

11:04 p.m.: Russell Wilson connects with Brandon Johnson for the 21-yard touchdown. The two-point attempt succeeds and the game is tied as the Broncos have overcome a huge deficit.

10:45 p.m.: Russell Wilson finds Lucas Krull for the 3-yard touchdown and the two-pointer that follows is good. Suddenly, this is a competitive football game again.

10:44 p.m.: The Broncos have edged their way deep into Patriots territory as Russell Wilson hits Jerry Jeudy for 13 yards to bring them to the New England 3-yard line.

Patriots 23, Broncos 7

10:31 p.m.: Cody Davis recovers a fumble for a 1-yard touchdown

10:29 p.m.: Bailey Zappe hits Mike Gesicki for the 11-yard touchdown

10:01 p.m.: Courtland Sutton has been ruled out for the Broncos with a concussion.

09:59 p.m.: Zeke's got hops! Elliott takes it for the 15-yard touchdown, complete with some hurdling action to put the Patriots on top

09:54 p.m.: Elliott takes it up the middle to the Denver 28

Broncos 7, Patriots 3

09:35 p.m.: Lutz's 57-yard field goal attempt is no good for the Broncos as it comes up short. That ends a first half filled with missed opportunities for both teams in what's been a low-scoring affair to this point.

09:30 p.m.: Ryland's field goal try from 47 yards is no good as it sails wide right.

09:25 p.m.: Broncos wide receiver Courtland Sutton was evaluated for a possible concussion. The team officially announces it as him being evaluated for a "possible head injury."

09:12 p.m.: McLaughlin takes it to the Denver 37 for a gain of 7 yards as the Patriots look to get within range to score the second time of the evening.

8:54 p.m.: The Patriots put their first points on the board with a 33-yard field goal from Chad Ryland.

Broncos 7, Patriots 3

8:40 p.m.: The Broncos post the first score of the night with a 3-yard rush by Javonte Williams.

8:36 p.m.: Marvin Mims Jr. has been a huge playmaker this season and further proves that with a 52-yard return.

8:21 p.m.: The Broncos go for it on fourth down but come up short, so Zappe's fumble proves inconsequential.

8:19 p.m.: The two teams nearly traded turnovers as Russell Wilson appeared to be intercepted in the end zone but it is ruled an incomplete pass.

8:17 p.m.: Bailey Zappe pump fakes and fumbles the ball, immediately giving the Broncos offense a chance.

Pregame: Tyquan Thornton is aligned in the spot of Matthew Slater as a gunner on the punt coverage unit in warmups.

Pregame: The Patriots OL in warmups appeared to be LT Vederian Lowe, LG James Ferentz, C David Andrews, RG: Sidy Sow and RT Mike Onwenu.

Pregame: Broncos inactives include TE Nate Adkins, OLB Nik Bonitto, QB Ben DiNucci, C Alex Forsyth, DE Elijah Garcia, OLB Thomas Incoom, S JL Skinner.

Pregame: The Patriots inactive include special teams captain Matthew Slater (hamstring) is inactive tonight, DT Sam Roberts, third QB/emergency Nathan Rourke, WR JuJu Smith-Schuster (ankle), RB Rhamondre Stevenson (ankle), safety Jabrill Peppers (hamstring) and Hunter Henry (knee).

Pregame: Nathan Rourke impresses in the pregame with some one-handed grabs.

Nathan Rourke and Mac Jones: One-handed grabs in warmups. pic.twitter.com/h9nadT2UIE — Mike Reiss (@MikeReiss) December 24, 2023

Pregame: Bill Belichick arrives to Mile High.

Patriots vs. Broncos start time

Date: Sunday, Dec. 24

Sunday, Dec. 24 Start time: 8:15 p.m. ET l 6:15 p.m. MT

Sunday night's game between the Patriots and Broncos is set to kick off at 8:15 p.m. ET at Empower Field at Mile High.

What channel is Patriots vs. Broncos on today?

Game: Patriots vs. Broncos

Patriots vs. Broncos Date: Sunday, Dec. 24

Sunday, Dec. 24 TV channel: NFL Network (U.S.) | TSN, CTV2, RDS (Canada)

NFL Network (U.S.) | TSN, CTV2, RDS (Canada) Live stream: NFL+, Fubo (U.S.) | DAZN (Canada)

Sunday's game between Denver and New England will air on NFL Network. Viewers can also watch the game on Fubo, which offers a free trial.

Those in Canada can watch on TSN and CTV2 in English and RDS in French, or stream it on DAZN, which carries every NFL game all season.

Rich Eisen will handle play-by-play and Kurt Warner will serve as the color analyst. James Palmer and Sherree Burruss will have the call on the sidelines.