Alas, we've reached the final week of the fantasy football regular season. Although fantasy's highest-scoring position has been beaten and battered this year, there are serviceable signal-callers out there capable of leading your team to victory in a pivotal week. Our Week 14 fantasy QB rankings will help you make the right start 'em, sit 'em moves to cap off the regular season.

We're still dealing with byes -- and we had two more QB injuries last week -- but the position remains deep with high-scoring studs and potential sleepers. As we saw last week, we're at the point in the season where weather could factor into start-sit decisions, but finding quarterback production shouldn't be a problem in 10- and 12-team leagues.

With that in mind, let's dissect this week's QB rankings and put you on a path to end your season with a "W."

Which QBs are on bye in Week 14?

Coinciding with the end of the fantasy regular season, Week 14 is the last week of byes, as the Cardinals and Commanders are the last two teams to take their mandatory PTO. That means two starting-caliber QBs (Kyler Murray and Sam Howell) are on the shelf, slightly impacting the QB pool.

WEEK 14 PPR RANKINGS:

RBs | WRs | TEs | D/STs | Kickers

The bigger losses, though, come on the defensive side of the ball, as fantasy owners won't be able to start QBs going up against two subpar pass defenses in Washington and Arizona. Starting any QB facing the Commanders' swiss-cheese defense has yielded strong returns. Arizona has been just as inefficient, entering Week 13 ranking 30th in dropback EPA.

WEEK 14 STANDARD RANKINGS:

RBs | WRs | TEs | D/STs | Kickers

Who are the best fantasy QBs in Week 14?

Despite Buffalo being on the outside looking in for a playoff berth, Josh Allen (@ Chiefs in Week 14) has come through in fantasy, sitting as our QB1 for Week 14. Yes, the Chiefs' defense has done its part in keeping QBs in check this season, entering Week 13 allowing the fifth-fewest fantasy points per game (FPPG) to the position, but Allen has performed well against Steve Spagnuolo's defense in the past. He's averaging 276.4 passing yards per game with a strong 14:2 TD-to-INT ratio over five career games against KC.

Not far behind sits Tua Tagovailoa (vs. Titans), who shredded the Commanders' defense to the tune of 280 yards and two TDs in Sunday's blowout. Another juicy matchup awaits against a lackluster Tennessee coverage unit. Dak Prescott (vs. Eagles) remains a top-three play in Sunday's rematch versus the Eagles, a team he torched for 374 yards and three TDs in a narrow 28-23 loss in Week 9.

Jalen Hurts (@ Cowboys) and the Eagles look to get back on track in a pivotal NFC East clash in Dallas, facing a Cowboys defense that let Geno Smith post top-end QB1 numbers against them last week. Patrick Mahomes (vs. Bills) is in line to put up strong numbers in a potential shootout against Buffalo, and although his receiving corps has its issues, the reigning MVP is still a top-five play this week.

Lamar Jackson (vs. Rams) faces an exploitable L.A. secondary, while Jared Goff (@ Bears) looks to build off a dominant Week 13 effort against an ascending Chicago stop unit. C.J. Stroud (@ Jets) sees a slight dip in his Week 14 ranking in a tough road test against the Jets, but the Rookie of the Year frontrunner still profiles as a set-it-and-forget-it QB1.

Who are the best fantasy QB sleepers, waiver pickups in Week 14?

Week 14 is a challenging one from streaming perspective, as Gardner Minshew (@ Bengals), Jameis Winston (vs. Panthers), Baker Mayfield (@ Falcons), and Joe Flacco (@ Jaguars) look like the best options.

Minshew is executing Shane Steichen's scheme at an efficient clip and now faces a Cincinnati stop unit that ranks below the league average in dropback EPA. Assuming Winston gets the starting nod in place of the banged-up Derek Carr (head, shoulder, back), his gunslinger play style could lead to a respectable fantasy output against the reeling Panthers.

Mayfield wasn't asked to do much with his arm in Week 13, but a potential negative game script in Atlanta could force him to air the ball out at a higher clip, boosting his fantasy prospects. Although the Browns didn't get the win in Flacco's first start with his new team, the veteran did everything he could to keep Cleveland within striking distance, racking up 254 yards and two TDs. Another 250-plus yard, multi-TD effort could again be in store if he continues to start in place of Dorian Thompson-Robinson (concussion).

WEEK 14 FANTASY ADVICE:

Sleepers | Busts | Projections | Start-sit

Who are the biggest potential QB busts in Week 14?

Matthew Stafford (@ Ravens), Geno Smith (@ 49ers), and Josh Dobbs (@ Raiders) are all risky against some of the league's better pass defenses. Stafford faces a sound Ravens stop unit that entered their Week 13 bye allowing the second-fewest FPPG to QBs.

There's a chance the Vikings opt to start fellow QB Nick Mullens over Dobbs after his debacle last Monday night against the Bears, but if Minnesota elects to stick with Dobbs, his rocky Week 12 outing concerns us against a Raiders defense that's been one of the more efficient pass defenses since Week 5, sitting eighth in dropback EPA.

On the other hand, after an elite Week 13 effort in Seattle's one-possession loss to Dallas, fantasy owners might go looking to chase points with Smith, but replicating last week's showing against the 49ers is a completely different ask for a QB who's underwhelmed this season.

WEEK 14 DFS:

DK lineup | FD lineup | Best values | Best stacks

What are the biggest QB injuries in Week 14?

Leading into Week 13, Dorian Thompson-Robinson (concussion) was the lone QB injury situation we were closely monitoring. Even if Thompson-Robinson is able to clear concussion protocol in time for Week 14, we expect Flacco to make his second start as a Brown.

This week, we unfortunately saw Kenny Pickett (ankle) and Derek Carr (head, shoulder, back) exit their respective contests with injuries, complicating their statuses for Week 14. We've replaced both QBs with backups Mitchell Trubisky and Jameis Winston, respectively, as early indications point toward both missing time.

UPDATE: Trevor Lawrence suffered an ankle injury on Monday, which will likely keep him out for at least a week and open the door for C.J. Beathard (vs. Browns) to start.

We'll be updating these QB rankings throughout the week, so check back for the latest player movement and analysis.

Fantasy QB Rankings Week 14: Who to start, sit at quarterback

These rankings are based on four-point passing TD scoring

Rank Player

1 Josh Allen, Bills @ Chiefs

2 Tua Tagovailoa, Dolphins vs. Titans

3 Dak Prescott, Cowboys vs. Eagles

4 Jalen Hurts, Eagles @ Cowboys

5 Patrick Mahomes, Chiefs vs. Bills

6 Lamar Jackson, Ravens vs. Rams

7 Jared Goff, Lions @ Bears

8 C.J. Stroud, Texans @ Jets

9 Brock Purdy, 49ers vs. Seahawks

10 Jordan Love, Packers @ Giants

11 Justin Herbert, Chargers vs. Broncos

12 Russell Wilson, Broncos @ Chargers

13 Justin Fields, Bears vs. Lions

14 Gardner Minshew, Colts @ Bengals

15 Matthew Stafford, Rams @ Ravens

16 Trevor Lawrence, Jaguars @ Browns

17 Geno Smith, Seahawks @ 49ers

18 Derek Carr, Saints vs. Panthers

19 Joe Flacco, Browns @ Jaguars

20 Baker Mayfield, Buccaneers @ Falcons

21 Josh Dobbs, Vikings @ Raiders

22 Jake Browning, Bengals vs. Colts

23 Bryce Young, Panthers @ Saints

24 Aidan O'Connell, Raiders vs. Vikings

25 Desmond Ridder, Falcons vs. Buccaneers

26 Will Levis, Titans @ Dolphins

27 Bailey Zappe, Patriots @ Steelers

28 Mitch Trubisky, Steelers @ Patriots

29 Tommy DeVito, Giants vs. Packers

30 Zach Wilson, Jets vs. Texans