"To hear the hype from vendors, you would think that enterprise buyers are all in when it comes to generative AI. But like any newer technology, large companies tend to move cautiously. Throughout this year, as vendors feverishly announced new generative AI-fueled products, CIOs took note.\n\nSome companies have actually been looking to cut back on spending, or at least stay even, not necessarily looking for new ways to spend money. The big exception is when technology enables companies to operate more efficiently, and do more with less.\n\nGenerative AI certainly has the potential to do that, but it also has its own costs associated with it, whether it\u2019s a higher cost for these features in a SaaS product or the price for hitting a large language model API if you\u2019re building your own software internally.\n\nEither way, it\u2019s important for the folks implementing the technology to understand if they are getting a return on their investment. A July Morgan Stanley survey of large company CIOs found that many were proceeding cautiously, with 56% of respondents reporting that generative AI was having an impact on their investment priorities, but only 4% had actually launched significant projects. In fact, most were still in the evaluation or proof of concept phase. This may be a fast moving area, but it fits with what we\u2019re hearing in conversations with CIOs as well.\n\nThat said, much like the consumerization of IT a decade ago, CIOs are under pressure to deliver the kind of experiences people are seeing when they play with ChatGPT online, says Jon Turow, a partner at Madrona Ventures.\n\n\u201cI think it\u2019s undeniable that enterprise employees, who are the internal customers of the CIO or CTO, have all tried ChatGPT and they know what amazing looks like. They know where it\u2019s early, and they know where it\u2019s inspiring, and for lack of a better word, where they see greatness. And so CIOs are under pressure to deliver that level,\u201d Turow told TechCrunch.\n\nIt has created a tension between this desire to please the internal customers, especially when some of that pressure could be coming from the CEO, and a CIO\u2019s natural tendency to move cautiously, even with something as potentially transformative as generative AI. That\u2019s going to take setting up some structure and organization around how this gets implemented over time, says Jim Rowan, principal at Deloitte, who is working with clients around how to build generative AI across companies in an organized fashion.\n\n\u201cA lot of the way we\u2019re working with companies is thinking about what is the infrastructure that they need to be successful. By infrastructure, I don\u2019t necessarily mean technology, but who are the people, what are the processes and the governance\u2026and giving them the capabilities to set that up,\u201d Rowan said. A big part of that is talking about use cases and how to use the technology to address a given problem.\n\nThis is in line with how CIOs we spoke to are approaching implementing this in their organizations. Monica Caldas, CIO at insurance company Liberty Mutual, started with a few-thousand-person proof of concept, and is looking for ways to expand that for her 45,000 employee company.\n\n\u201cWe know generative AI will continue to play a critical role in virtually every part of our company, so we\u2019re investing in many use cases to further develop and refine them in service of supporting our employees and giving them better internal capabilities,\u201d she said.\n\nMike Haney, CIO at Battelle, a firm focused on science and technology, has also been exploring generative AI use cases this year. \u201cSo we\u2019ve been doing this whole push for AI over the last maybe six or nine months and we\u2019re at the point right now where we\u2019re building specific use cases for each different team and function within the firm.\u201d He cautions that it\u2019s early, and they are still exploring ways in which it can help, but so far the results have been good in terms of offering more efficient ways to do things.\n\nKathy Kay, executive VP and CIO at Principal Financial Group, a financial services company, says her company started from scratch with a study group. \u201cSo any employees who had an interest or passion, we allowed them to join so there\u2019s about 100 people. It\u2019s a combination of engineers and business people, and we are curating probably 25 use cases now
\nLLM observability falls within the \u201cmiddle layer\u201d category, acting as a catalyst for specialized business applications to use foundational models. Incumbents like Datadog, New Relic and Splunk have all produced LLM observability tools and do appear to be putting a lot of R&D dollars behind this, which may curtail the market area in the short-term.\n\nHowever, as we have seen before with the inceptions of the internet and cloud computing, incumbents tend to innovate until innovation becomes stagnant. With AI becoming a household name that finds use cases in every vertical, startups have the chance to come in with innovative solutions that disrupt and reimagine the work of incumbents. It\u2019s still too early to say with certainty who the winners will be, as every day reveals new gaps in existing AI frameworks. Therein lie major opportunities for startups.\n\nHow much room in the market do the largest tech companies\u2019 services leave for smaller companies and startups tooling for LLM deployment?\n\nWhen considering the landscape of foundational layer model providers like Alphabet/Google\u2019s Bard, Microsoft/OpenAI\u2019s GPT-4, and Anthropic\u2019s Claude, it\u2019s evident that the more significant players possess inherent advantages regarding data accessibility, talent pool and computational resources. We expect this layer to settle into an oligopolistic structure like the cloud provider market, albeit with the addition of a strong open source contingency that will drive considerable third-party adoption.\n\nAs we look at the generative AI tech stack, the largest market opportunity lies above the model itself. Companies that introduce AI-powered APIs and operational layers for specific industries will create brand-new use cases and transform workflows. By embracing this technology to revolutionize workflows, these companies stand to unlock substantial value.\n\nHowever, it\u2019s essential to recognize that the market is still far from being crystallized. LLMs are still in their infancy, with adoption at large corporations and startups lacking full maturity and refinement. We need robust tools and platforms to enable broader utilization among businesses and individuals. Startups have the opportunity here to act quickly, find novel solutions to emerging problems, and define new categories.\n\nInterestingly, even large tech companies recognize the gaps in their services and have begun investing heavily in startups alongside VCs. These companies apply AI to their internal processes and thus see the value startups bring to LLM deployment and integration. Consider the recent investments from Microsoft, Nvidia, and Salesforce into companies like Inflection AI and Cohere.\n\nWhat can be done to ensure industry-specific startups that tune generative AI models for a specific niche will prove defensible?\n\nTo ensure industry-specific startups will prove defensible in the rising climate of AI integration, startups must prioritize collecting proprietary data, integrating a sophisticated application layer and assuring output accuracy.\n\nWe have established a framework to assess the defensibility of application layers of AI companies. First, the application must address a real enterprise pain point prioritized by executives. Second, to provide tangible benefits and long-term differentiation, the application should be composed of cutting-edge models that fit the specific and unique needs of the software. It\u2019s not enough to simply plug into OpenAI; rather, applications should choose their models intentionally while balancing cost, compute, and performance.\n\nThird, the application is only as sophisticated as the data that it is fed. Proprietary data is necessary for specific and relevant insights and to ensure others cannot replicate the final product. To this end, in-house middle-layer capabilities provide a competitive edge while harnessing the power of foundational models. Finally, due to the inevitable margin of error of generative AI, the niche market must tolerate imprecision, which is inherently found in subjective and ambiguous content, like sales or marketing.\n\nHow much technical competence can startups presume that their future enterprise AI customers will have in-house, and how much does that presumed expertise guide startup product selection and go-to-market motion?\n\nWithin the enterprise sector, there\u2019s a clear recognition of the value of AI. However, many lack the internal capabilities to develop AI solutions. This gap presents a significant opportunity for startups specializing in AI to engage with enterprise clients. As the business landscape matures, proficiency in leveraging AI is becoming a strategic imperative.\n\nMcKinsey reports that generative AI alone can add up to $4.4 trillion in value across industries through writing code, analyzing consumer trends, personalizing customer service, improving operating efficiencies, and more. Ninety-four percent of business leaders agree AI will be critical to all businesses\u2019 success over the next five years, and total global spending on AI is expected to reach $154 billion by the end of this year