 of 2023.\n\nKentucky Sportsbook Apps to Know\n\nSportsbook Platforms App Features* Fanatics iOS and Android apps FanCash Rewards, bettable search, Discover page, cash outs, easy sign up, secure deposit, Withdrawal Tracker FanDuel iOS and Android apps, desktop and mobile web Quick bets, secure deposits, horse racing, casino, cash outs, fast payouts DraftKings iOS and Android apps, desktop and mobile web\n\nCasino, fast withdrawals, secure deposits BetMGM iOS and Android apps, desktop and mobile web\n\nEasy deposits and withdrawals, 24/7 access, safe and secure transactions Caesars iOS and Android apps, desktop and mobile web\n\nCaesars Rewards, casino, Quick Picks Bet365 iOS and Android apps, desktop and mobile web\n\nCash outs, personalized display, alerts, edit bets, My Teams, search, sports stats\n\nSports Betting on Kentucky (and Nearby) Teams\n\nKentucky Wildcats: One of the most iconic college basketball programs in the nation, the Kentucky Wildcats should be an extremely popular betting option for Bluegrass State residents. The eight-time national champions have been led by legendary coach John Calipari since 2010 and they have appeared in four Final Fours during his tenure, recording a national title in 2012. The program's 2,021-637 all-time record is the best in college basketball history. Though best known for its basketball prowess, Kentucky has also found more success on the gridiron in recent years in the SEC, including a dozen bowl appearances since 2006.\n\nLouisville Cardinals: The Wildcats have the historic edge, but Louisville basketball won the more recent national title, cutting down the nets in 2013. They've been to 10 Final Fours and own the 12th-best record (1,726-874) in college basketball history. Louisville has also become a bigger name in the college football world in the past couple decades. Well known for 2013 Heisman winner Lamar Jackson, Louisville transitioned to the ACC in 2014 and the Cardinals have finished in the AP Top 25 seven times since 2004.\n\nWestern Kentucky Hilltoppers: Though they don't have the widespread following of UK or Louisville, the Hilltoppers have a nice fanbase in the southern portion of the state and they have the overall athletic success to demand attention in the betting market. A longtime Division I-AA (now known as FCS) power, WKU fully transitioned to the FBS level in 2009 and they've had nine winning seasons since that point. In men's basketball, WKU has made the NCAA Tournament 23 times and its 1,622-720 all-time mark ranks 14th in history, just a couple spots behind Louisville.\n\nCincinnati Bengals: With no \"Big Four\" professional sports teams playing within state lines, many Kentucky residents look just north of the state's border to cheer on the neighboring Cincinnati Bengals. A franchise long known for its futility in the early days of existence became more of a contender under Marvin Lewis with seven playoff appearances between 2005-15. The franchise got another jolt more recently with stars such as Joe Burrow and Ja'Marr Chase leading Cincinnati to a Super Bowl appearance in 2021 and an AFC title game appearance in 2022. The Indianapolis Colts and Tennessee Titans are also NFL franchises located within short drives of portions of Kentucky.\n\nCincinnati Reds: The state's MLB allegiances are a bit more split with the St. Louis Cardinals also drawing a big following, particularly in the western portion of the state, but the Reds are largely considered the most popular team for Kentucky residents. The Reds won modern-era titles in 1975, 1976 and 1990, but haven't advanced past the NLCS since that point. They've largely struggled in recent years, but the 2023 team has pushed for a playoff spot all season, just in time to draw the attention of new Kentucky sports bettors.\n\nTop Kentucky betting terms for new bettors\n\nAgainst the spread: Instead of betting on an exact winner, the widely-popular spread bet levels the playing field by allowing you to wager on how many points a team will win by. In basketball, if Kentucky is the 7.5-point favorite against Louisville then Kentucky can cover the spread if it wins by 8 or more points. However, Louisville as the 7.5-point underdog can cover the spread by winning outright or losing by 7 or fewer points.\n\nMoney line: Think of this as an elevated outright bet, with odds adjusted to reflect a favored team and an underdog. If Kentucky is listed as a -200 favorite against Florida, you'd need to bet $200 to return $100 on Kentucky to win. That means that Florida as the +200 underdog would return $200 on a $100 bet if that team wins.\n\nOut